
I «ft I 


J Al M INISUTR AS 

English Translation with Full Notes and Original Texts in 
Devanagari and Transliteration 


By 

BANGALORE SURYANARAIN RAO 


Revised and Annotated by 

BANGALORE VENKATA RAMAN 

Editor , The Astrological Magazine 



IBH PRAKASHANA 

Gandhinagar, Bangalore 560 009 




JAIMINISUTRAS— English Translation with full notes and 
original texts in Devanagarl and Transliteration by Bangalore 
Suryanaraian Rao and revised and annotated by Dr. Banga- 
lore Venkata Raman and published by Sri P. N. Kamat, 
IBH Prakashana, Sth Main, Gandhinagar, Bangalore-560009, 


Fifth Edition 1955 


Printed by H. S. N. Rao, IBH Prakashana Printery, Banga- 
lore 560054, 



CONTENTS 

PAGES 

Preliminary Observations ; 

Geneology of Maharishis by Vedavyasa - 
The intellectual development of Maharishis 
by Yoga — Literature in Sanskrit — Definition 
of Sutra — Difficulties in Translation — Perfect 
Development of Sanskrit— Maharishi Jaimini. 

Adhyaya 1, Pada 1 — (Chapter 1, Part 1) 1—40 

Meanings of Astrological terms defined — 

Aspects of Planets and Zodiacal Signs — 
Differences of Principles in Astrology and 
their reconciliation. — Necessity for a study 
of general and special principles — Pneumo- 
nics in Sanskrit Mathematics — Bad influences 
and their counteraction— Atmakaraka or 
Lord of Soul, Kalatrakaraka or Lord of 
wife, Naisargikakaraka or Permanent Lord — 
Lordships for Rahu and Kethu — Results of 
Atmakaraka, Amatyakaraka or Lord of 
minister, Bhratrukaraka or Lord of brother, 
Matrukaraka or Lord of mother, Putra- 
karaka or Lord of son, Gnatikaraka or Lord 
of cousins and Darakaraka or Lord of wife 
—Signification of Planets, Rasi, Rasi Dasas 
or Periods of Signs and their results — Arudha 
or Pada Lagna, Varnada Lagna, Ghatika 
Lagna, Bhava Lagna, Chandra Lagna, Hora 
Lagna and their uses. 



IV 


Adhyaya 1 , Pada 2 — (Chapter 1, Part 2) 41—87 

Atmakaraka in different Navamsas — Planets 
with Atmakaraka— Gulikakala or Time of the 
Son of Saturn — Lordships of Planets over 
different times in a day — Hora Drekkana, 
Navamsa, Dwadasamsa and the Thrimsamsa 
explained as per Varahamihira — Planets as- 
pecting Atmakaraka Navamsa in Gulikakala 
—Effects of Planets in various houses from 
Karakamsas and their significations — Kema- 
druma Yoga. 

Adhyaya 1, Pada 3 — (Chapter 1, Part 3) 87 -106 

Planets in various houses from Pada Lagna 
and their results — Uchcha — Graha Samanya 
- Combinations for Royalty and Poverty. 

Adhyaya I, Pada 4— (Chapter 1, Part 4) 106- -126 

Upapada Lagna and its results — Combi- 
nations for various diseases — Children — 

Death of brothers, sisters — Dumbness, stam- 
mering, complexion, religious tendencies, 
adultery, leadership in community — 33 crores 
of Dcvatas — Nigraha and Anugraha forms — 
Mahamantras or good Vedic Secrets — Kshu- 
dra Mantras or evil incantation. 

Adhyaya 2, Pada 1 — (Chapter 2, Part 1) 126 — 156 

Determination of Longevity — Combinations 
for Long, Middle and Short lives — Reconci- 
liation of different systems of Longevity — 
Karakayogas --Kakshya, Hrasa or reduction 



V 


or degradation — Kakshya Vriddhi or increase 
— Dwara Rasi, Dwarabahya Rasi and Paka- 
bhoga Rasis explained — Increase of Life and 
averting death— Viparitas or Perverts in 
meaning — Karakayogas and Kartariyogas 
detailed— Three kinds of Longevities— Alpayu, 
Madhyayu and Purnayu — Explanation and 
results of Rudra, Maheswara and Brahma 
Rasis — Different kinds of Yogas. 

Adhyaya 2, Pada 2 — (Chapter 2, Part 2) 156 169 

Planets causing Death of Mother and Father 
in Shoola Dasas — Combinations for deaths 
due to the displeasure of Governments — 
Different kinds of diseases — Bites of insects 
and venereal complaints. 

Adhyaya 2, Pada 3 — (Chapter 2, Part 3) 170 — 180 

Sthira Dasas, Navamsa Dasas and Prana 
Dasas detailed — Combinations for deaths of 
uncles, cousins and other relations in Shoola 
Dasas — Explanation of Shoola Dasas or 
periods. 

Adhyaya 2, Pada 4 — (Chapter 2, Part 4) 180 — 197 

Bhoga Rasis, Bhoga Dasas and Paka Dasas 
— Combinations for Imprisonments and 
Deaths in Purusha and Stri Rasis — Yogardha 
Dasa, Drigdasa and Trikona Dasa. 

A short sketch of Prof. B. Suryanarain Rao’s 
life. 


199 



FOREWORD 

By Bangalore Venkata Raman 

Editor, The Astrological Magazine 

1 have the pleasure to present herewith the fifth and 
revised edition of the English Translation of the first two 
Adhyayas of JAlMiNiSUTRAS by my revered grandfather 
late Professor B. Suryanarain Rao. 

Jaimini is held in very great esteem throughout India 
not only for his philosophical aphorisms but for his 
astrological writings also. 

JAIMINI sutras as presented in these pages deals 
with a system of astrology that has no parallel in the 
existing methods. The Sutras are hard nuts to crack and 
Professor Rao has tried his utmost to explain the apho- 
risms as clearly and convincingly as possible. 

I have not meddled with either the translation or the 
notes as given by Prof. Rao for fear of aifecting the 
sense. I have however added my own remarks by way 
of annotations wherever I felt that an aphorism or 
aphorisms required further elucidation. 

Professor Rao is the only scholar in India to have 
attempted an English Translation of Jaimini. Therefore 
the cultured public should feel grateful to him for having 
enabled them to have access to a system of astrological 
literature w'hich is unique in its own way. My own 
publication STUDIES in Jaimini ASTROLOGY deals with 
the Jaimini system in an exhaustive manner with 
examples. 

The Translation herewith presented has been tho- 
roughly revised by me and it is hoped readers will be 
highly benefited by a careful study of his book. 


B. V. RAMAN 



PREFACE 


The best Indian sciences, religion, philosophy, dramas, 
literature, politics . and epics are the productions of the 
Maharishis. These aie intellectual giants like the Himalayan 
Mountains and all others in the world are pigmies before 
them. The why of this may not be known to us, but the facts 
are there. Works, therefore, from the brains of the 
Maharishis stand unrivalled and they are colossal in nature. 
Maharishi Jaimini is a great intellect and his sutras are very 
valuable. I make no apology to introduce them to the public 
in the simplest, English garb. The sutras will and have to 
speak for themselves. They are more than five thousand years 
old and valuable to command attention and respect from all 
classes of readers, Indian or Foreign. Those which have 
stood brilliantly for 5 or 10 thousand years without losing 
their brilliancy are real intellectual gems which everybody 
should covet to possess. These five thousand years, instead of 
diminishing their lustre, have added further brilliancy to the 
sutras. The commentators have done invaluable service and 
all their extensive interpretations and clear arguments 
cannot be incorporated or embodied in short notes of mine. 
If they are to be assimilated into the real explanations of 
the sutras, the bulk of the present volume would increase by 
ten-fold and cause tremendous discouragement to the students 
who would like to pursue the easiest way, and learn some- 
thing of Jaimini sutras, which have been sealed letters to the 
English knowing public. Even the great Sanskrit scholars 



Vlll 


find the sutras hard nuts to crack and often they give them 
up for want of patience, devotion and technical difficulties 
in the way. I have been only a student in Astrology and 
kindred sciences, although I have had 55 years of study and 
practice. Astrology is a grand ocean, containing four 
hundred thousand stanzas or verses, and requires certainly 
centuries for its grasp and comprehension. After all our 
brains can take in only a few stanzas from the extensive 
literature, but for brilliant intellects, a knowledge of the 
few fundamental principles will enable them to grasp the 
sciences and make good progress in the course of a few 
years 1 have done my best in this English Translation, and 
1 leave the readers to judge of my honest labours in 
propounding sutraic principles. Within my humble know- 
ledge none of our learned scholars seem to have taken the 
trouble, or made attempts to translate these aphorisms of 
Maharishi Jaimini and I am proud to say 1 am the first in 
the field of translation to have undertaken this difficult task. 
Constructive criticisms are always welcome and I shall be 
grateful to them who offer such observations. Destructive 
criticisms must be treated with supreme contempt. One who 
is not an adept in a subject will be a sorry critic. He can be 
left alone. 


B, SURYANARAIN RAO. 



INTRODUCTION 


An Introduction to the valuable JAIMINISUTRAS will be an 
uncalled for luxury. The profundity and brevity of these 
sutras have called forth the highest admiration from all 
readers during the last fifty centuries. My pen is too 
humble to do them justice or bring their majesty before the 
public in that dignified form in which the original sutras 
stand in Sanskrit. They eloquently speak for their intrinsic 
value. To frame short sutras with comprehensive meanings 
is not given to ordinary mortals. Maharishis of Aryavartha 
alone have framed sutras. None else could do them. No one 
has done them in the world. It requires not only the 
command over the Sanskrit language but it also requires 
consummate scholarship in the Science of Astrology and 
kindred subject to frame sutras. The readers should parti- 
cularly remember that Jyothisha in Sanskrit means light and 
the sense which sees and feels the light. It is the clear 
vision of the Vedas. Of the Vedic shadangas this is the most 
important. Without the help of Jyotisha, Vedas would be 
blind. We want clear Light over all our events, past, 
present, and the most desirable future. What other sciences 
can pretend or have pretended to do this service for mankind? 
From where and from what previous states of existence 
have we come ? What will be our success and failures in the 
present state and where are we going to live after the separa- 
tion of Jeeva from the Deha or the Life from the physical 
structure? What are our thoughts, deeds and aspirations in 



X 


this life, and how far do we succeed in our aims and in what 
manner can we do so? Do the planets influence us and are 
we directed under their command ? If not, what have they to 
do with us? How do they exercise their influences over us? 
and how can we correctly calculate them and guide our 
destinies in their light, averting evils and enhancing good. 
Who are the most famous writers on Astrology, and what 
are their pretentions? Are there any other sciences which 
can help us in these directions? 

All these and many more pertinent and relevant questions 
arc asked, both by believers and non-believers of this science. 
Such questions are no doubt very important and arc to the 
point. I am proud to say that almost all such relevant or 
irrelevant questions on Astrology and remedies prescribed 
by Astrology and Dharmasastras, have been clearly and 
convincingly answered by me in my Introduction to the Study 
of Astrology in the Light of Modern Sciences . The Intioduction 
extends over 78 pages of closely printed matter and I must 
refer my readers to that fui fuller details and information. 
JAIMINISUTRAS have not been translated into English by any- 
body in India, so far as my knowledge goes. Neither is it 
so very easy to translate sutras into proper English. The 
meaning of a small sutra, sometimes may be developed into 
stout printed volume. English language is incapable of 
framing sutras and much less for their being translated into 
concise and short sentences. In its present form and con- 
struction the English language is quite unfit for framing 
sutras. These sutras are profound, scholarly and unique in 
their composition and defy all competition. They comprehend 
a vast amount of knowledge in the shortest forms possible and 
have been framed graciously by Maharishi Jaimini, for the 



XI 


benefit of the world. He openly says so. In the end of these 
sutras the author remarks that all that he has written is 
quite true, as these truths have been propounded by the still 
earlier Maharishis, Pitamaha or Brahma, Vyasa, Parasara, 
Vasishta, Garga, Bhrigu, Surya, Chandra, Brihaspathi, Sukra, 
Marichi, Palaha, Pulisa, Maya and other eminent scientists. 
The treatment of the different Bhavas, Rasis and Planets 
will be found a little confusing in the beginning but with some 
patience, diligence and practice the peculiarities of his system 
readily yield themselves to our comprehension and enable us 
to read the full horoscopes in the light in which Jaimini has 
explained them for our benefit. He gives various Lagnas, 
Hora Lagna, Ghatika Lagna, Upapada Lagna, Varnada 
Lagna and so forth. His Dasas are mostly founded on Rasis 
and Navamsas. The calculations backwards and forwards for 
odd and even signs trouble the reader to some extent. The 
extent of Dasas differs from the ordinary conceptions as 
explained by the general principles of Astrology. Constel- 
lations have not been given prominence. Brahma, Rudra and 
Maheswara Dasas are peculiar in these sutras. While the 
language is graceful, the interpretations are taxing, difficult 
and stiff. A vast amount of general knowledge is needed for 
the proper interpretations and comprehension of these sutras. 
It is asserted by some that JAIMINISUTRAS extend over 8 
Adhyayas. I have seen only four and have not come across the 
rest. I am on the look out for them and by chance I may have 
the good-luck to discover them in some old palace or private 
libraries. * I shall translate the other two Adhyayas at an early 

*Prof. B Suryanarain Rao tried his utmost to secure the other two 
chapters but could not succeed. However 1 have been able to secure the 
HI and IV Adhvayas information from which has been incorporated in my 
book Studies in Jaimini Astrology : An Eaglish translation of the III and 
IV Adhyayas has been made by S. K. Kar. 



XU 


date. The two Adhyayas, I have now translated, are complete 
in themselves and will be found to be of the highest value to 
the students in astrology. The masterly way in which the 
Maharishi has explained the Astrological principles, will 
surely make the students masters in this line. 

The sutras, being short and sweet, can easily be committed 
to memory and this is the greatest advantage Sanskrit 
sutras possess over other languages in the world. I have 
quoted the original sutras in the transliteration system so 
that those who know Sanskrit may easily follow the sutras 
and my translation and notes, and correct any mistakes, 
which may have crept into my translations either through 
ignorance or oversight. I have given the original Sanskrit 
words and have explained them in easy English as I have 
understood them. Sanskrit alone commands sutras. We 
have Brahmasutras or Uttara Mimamsa by Vyasa, Jaimini- 
sutras or Poorva Mimamsa, Grihyasutras, Vyakaranasutras, 
and other sutras on various subjects by Maharishis. Such 
wonderful display of sutras is quite peculiar to Sanskrit 
and 1 have not heard of the existence of such a system of 
sutras in any other language in the world. 

Those who are better scholars than myself in Astrology, 
Astronomy, Sanskrit and English may point out my inaccu- 
racies, correct them, for the benefit of the world and thus 
earn not only my gratitude but also of the cultured huma- 
nity in general. Since this translation is the first of its kind 
in the field on Jaiminisutras, I recommend this work to all 
lovers in Astrology. Those who do not believe in Astrology, 
will do well to read the translation and apply the principles 
to their own horoscopes and see how beautifully the results 
agree with the positions of planets. Duty to science and 



X 11 1 


literature requires every sensible man, who has the good of 
humanity at heart, not to neglect any branch of knowledge, 
without fair and reasonable trials. We have no reason to 
reject any science, without proper study and careful applica- 
tion. There are some persons who say “/ don’t believe in 
this or that science ”. Reflection shows they are unwise and 
entirely wrong. In the first place they do not represent the 
sum total of all knowledge in the world. The importance 
attached to their Ego, by themselves, is unjustifiable and 
untenable. I challenge, if there is any man in this world 
who knows all branches of knowledge or even the A B C of 
them. Some scientists are more narrow-minded and bigoted 
than the declared bigots of religion or social customs. 
When the best and the most intellectual Maharishis of India 
have not only believed in Astrology, but, have also written 
four hundred thousand stanzas on Astrology, will it be un- 
reasonable to ask the readers to study the science, put it into 
practice and then say, what they think about it. To the 
sceptics, only one word of advice by me. Learn the elemen- 
tary principles, take your horoscopes and of those who are 
dear and near to you. Read them in the light of these sutras 
and then say honestly what you think of this science. A 
handful of experience is worth ten cartloads of theories. If 
I am wrong correct me in the light of experience. If you are 
wrong correct yourself like a noble soul. Can I be fairer 
than this in my advice ? 


B. SURYANARAIN RAO. 



PRELIMINARY OBSERVATIONS 

The name of Maharishi Jaimini is held in high esteem and 
reverence among the Sanskrit writers of eminence and probably 
he is held only next to Maharishi Vcdavyasa. Jaimini is the 
disciple of Vyasa*, and besides being a writer of various 
treatises and the Epic Jaimini Bharata, he is the famous 
author of Poorva Mimamsa Sastra, and these able aphorisms 
in Astrology called after his name as the JAIMINISUTRAS. The 
Maharishis, so far as their intellectual development was 
concerned, stood altogether on a unique pedestal unapproached 
by any other authors in the world. They expanded their 
intellects not by ordinary study, patient labour and devotion 
but by the mystic processes of Yoga. Thus expanding their 
mental vision by a peculiar process still unknown to the 
greatest scholars of the present day, they were able to grasp 
the causes and effects of the celestial and terrestrial pheno- 
mena with the greatest ease and on a scale of understanding 
and comprehension of facts at which the present generations 
stand surprised and wonderstruck. Take Maharishi Veda- 
vyasa the great grandson of Vasishta, the grandson of Sakti, 
the son of Parasara and the father of Maharishi Shuka who 
is held in the highest esteem by the great Rishis themselves 
for his piety, Brahmagnana, and unalloyed purity of life. 
Vysa has written 18 Puranas including the Mahabharata, 
enclosing the immortal Bhagavadgita, great Siddhanta after 
his name on Astronomy, several works on Astrology and the 
most profound Brahmasutras, called LJttara-Mimamsa. This 
colossal collection of literature relating to all branches of 
human knowledge stands as a monument to the grandeur of 
his glorious intellect and it will be a real surprise to the cul- 
tured public, if any other name in the world could be 
compared to this intellectual giant. In addition to all these 
works, he was able to systematise and put in proper order the 



XV 


Four Vedas and thus earn the most envious title of Vedavyasa 
or one who put the Vedas in their present form and sequence. 
Jaimini was a worthy disciple of Vedavyasa and has be- 
queathed to humanity, many valuable works among which 
stand foremost Jaimini Bharata, Poorva-M imamsa and the 
Jaiminisutras on Astrology. In the various branches of the 
Sanskrit Sciences thcrwrrcr$ area wonder of Sanskrit literature. 
We do not know if there is any other language in this world 
which has anything like the sutras. A sutra may thus be 
defined as the shortest in form with the largest meaning possible. 
JAIMINISUTRAS are said to have been composed in eight 
chapters. Though brief, they contain a large quantity of 
meaning. Many technicalities are used throughout these 
sutras and I will try to explain them as best as I could. In 
translations from a rich and comprehensive language to a 
poor and ill-equipped tongue, it is extremely difficult to bring 
out the force, the dignity, the sweetness, the majesty and the 
flow of the original language. The translators, however learned 
they may be and however brilliant their intelligence may be, 
have to remember the great gulf which separates their intelli- 
gence with that of the great Maharishi who is their original 
author. At best the translator can only explain and illus- 
trate what he understands and conceives to be the meaning of 
the original author. It may be the correct interpretation of 
the author or what may have been understood to be the 
meaning by the translator. In the case of the works of the 
Maharishis, I may not be very wrong if I say that none of the 
commentators or the translators could ever hope to come up 
to their standard. However, a man can do at best what he 
honestly knows to be the meaning ; and I can assure my 
readers that in the translation of these difficult sutras J have 
taken the greatest care to bring out the correct meaning of 
the Maharishi in his inimitable work the JAIMINISUTRAS 
Everyone cannot compose a sutra. A sutra, to be a sound one, 



xvi 


must have certain characteristic features and unless these 
conditions arc satisfied they cannot pass muster under the 
heading of a sutra. In English, so far as my humble know- 
ledge and practical experience go, it looks impossible to frame 
a sutra as the Sanskrit authors have composed and conceived 
it. The defects of languages cannot be set right by ordinary 
men, and it is hopeless to make such attempts. Jaimini, 
through his great sympathy and love for the people, framed 
these sutras and they have to be interpreted on certain 
principles which the Sanskrit writers have laid down for our 
guidance and education. The brevity of a sutra is its distingui- 
shing feature, and it can easily be committed to memory even 
by the ordinary students. Somehow or other, Sanskrit 
language seems to have a close affinity to strengthen and 
improve memory. Have we ever seen an advocate or a judge 
who is able to repeat a few sections of any legal book? Is 
there any English knowing person who can repeat a play of 
Shakespeare or a few pages of any dictionary ? In Sanskrit, 
Dasopanishads are easily committed to memory. There are 
Dwivedis and Thrivcdis who easily commit to memory one, 
two and three Vedas and repeat them with an ease which sur- 
prises the listeners. There are many who have committed to 
memory the Sanskrit lexicon “Amara” and quote its stanzas 
offhand with the greatest ease. Bhagavata, Bharata, Rama- 
yana and other extensive works are easily committed to 
memory. Kavyas and Natakas, Epics and Dramas form no 
exception. Astrological literature, whether it be astronomi- 
cal calculation or astrological Phalabhaga has, been committed 
to memory and I can repeat more than 2 or 3 thousand slokas, 
without any paper or pencil. The discussion of the learned 
Brahmin Pandits is a source of great delight to the audience. 
They bring neither books, nor notes, nor papers, nor any 
references when they come for great assemblies where their 
knowledge in the several branches of Sanskrit will be tested 
and where they receive due rewards. The greatest Indian 
Pandit has hardly anything which deserves the name of a 
library, whereas the poorest equipped English reader keeps 
up a decent library. Are not then the heads of these Pandits 
more valuable than the heads of the greatest English scholars 
who have to refer to books for constant renewal of their 
wo'inories ? 



SRI 


JAIMINISUTRAS 

ENGLISH TRANSLATION 

ADHYAYA 1— PADA 1 
ii qjratfwr: it 
1. II 

Su. 1 . — Upadesam Vyakhya&yamah. 

I shall now explain my work for the benefit of 
the readers and shall give them proper instructions 
to understand the subject. 

NOTES 

Upadesa means literally bringing one close to the object 
and make him understand the truth. Upa samip disanti 
cause to sit — taking one close to the true object of his search, 
making him sit there and see clearly with his menial vision, 
the truths of the Science. Jaimini observes that he will take 
the subject of Astrology in phaiabhaga or Predictive portion, 
introduce the readers and disciples to the principles of Astro- 
logy and make them see the truths and realise their grandeur 
by personal experiences. He expands the subject in his own 
inimitable style and tries his best to put vast quantities of 



2 


Jaiminisutras 


Astrological knowledge in the fewest possible Aphorisms 
called the Sutras . This word Upa occurs in Upanayana as 
making a man, see the grandeur of Parabrahma, and Upani- 
shad or taking one nearer to God and Upasana carrying the 
same idea and making the person see the object of his search 
and bring him into closer contact with it, 

srffr qy ifa sfisnftr u 

Su. 2 . — Abhipasyanti rikshani. 

The zodiacal signs aspect each other (in their 
front). 

*. 'st it 

Su. 3 . — Parswabhe cha. 

Excepting the next zodiacal signs to them. 

aftrow ergrff ii 

Su. 4 . — Thannishthascha tadvat. 

Those planets which occupy such signs will also 
aspect the planets found in such houses. 

NOTES 

Unless easy explanations are offered and illustrations are 
given the meanings of these Sanskrit Sutras will not become 
intelligible and convincing to the readers. 

The second Sutra can be explained thus. The zodia- 
cal signs aspect each other which are in their front. 1 do not 
exactly understand what is meant by the word front. The 
commentators who have done invaluable services to humanity 
by their lucid explanations and the removal of all reasonable 
doubts thus observe : Mesha has Vrischika, Vrishabha has 



Jaiminisutras 


3 


Thula, Mithuna has Kanya, Kataka has Kumbha, Simha has 
Makara, Kanya has Dhanus, Thula has Vrishabha, Vrischika 
has Mesha, Dhanus has Meena, Makara has Simha, Kumbha 
has Kataka and Meena has Mithuna as the signs in front and 
aspect them. From the 3rd sutra it is signified that the zodia- 
cal sign next to Aries, viz., Vrishabha is not aspected, the sign 
Mithuna is not aspected by Vrishabha, Kataka is not aspected 
by Mithuna, Simha is not aspected by Kataka atid so forth. 
Following this rule all the Chara Rasis or movable signs aspect 
all the Sthira Rasis or fixed signs excepting that which is next 
to it and all the fixed signs aspect the movable signs excepting 
that which is next to it. The double bodied signs aspect each 
other. In none of the current astrological books is mentioned 
the fact of the aspecting of zodiacal signs or the planets which 
are in them in this particular manner. In the 4th sutra , refe- 
rence is made to planets occupying those houses, and exercising 
aspectal influences as the houses themselves are said to do. I 
will give a few illustrations to exemplify the above enunciated 
principles. 


Meena 

Mesha 

Vrishabha 

Mithuna 

Kumbha 

DIAGRAM 

Kataka 

Makara 

Simha 

Dhanus 

Vrischika 

Thula 

Kan>a 




4 


Jaiminisutras 


* Chora Rasis aspect SthiraRasis. Sthira Rasis aspect Chara 
Rasis and Dwiswabhava Rasis aspect the Dwiswabhavas. Mesha 
is movable and Vrishabha next to it is fixed. Mesha is said 
to aspect the fixed signs except the one which is next to it. 
Mesha aspects the fixed signs Simha, Vrischika and Kumbha 
but not Vrishabha which is close to it. Vrishabha, a fixed 
sign, aspects the movable signs Kataka, Thulaand Makarabut 
not Mesha which is close to it. Mithuna, Kanya, Dhanus and 
Meena the four double-bodied or common houses aspect each 
other and there is no difficulty about them. Kataka, a movable 
sign, aspects Vrischika, Kumbha and Vrishabha, but not 
Simha which is close to it. Thula a movable sign aspects 
Kumbha, Vrishabha and Simha but not the fixed sign Vris- 
chika next to it. 

Vrischika, a fixed sign, aspects Makara, Mesha and Kataka 
but not Thula which is close to it. Makara a movable sign 
aspects these fixed signs Vrishabha, Simha and Vrischika but 
not Kumbha which is close to it. These aspects of Rasis have 
peculiar influences and they are taken into consideration in 
these Jaiminisutras . 

According to the above sutras and the explanations as 
understood by me, the following aspects have to be noted in 
the example given on next page. Ravi is in a movable sign and 
does not aspect Budha but aspects Simha, Vrischika and the 
planet Sani in it and Kumbha and Chandra in it. Budha 
aspects Kataka, Thula and Makara and Kuja who is in that 
sign. As per above principles, Rasis aspect each other and 

* cf. Vriddha karika . 

firsn ftro r w fon wn i 
ftsn gnr WHftHwwws 11 



Jalminisutras 



Ravi 

Budha 

j 

Sukra 

Chandra 

EXAMPLE 

- 

Kuja 



Sani 


Guru 


also the planets in them. The planets aspect each other and 
also the Rasis mentioned in the Sutras. In the above illustra- 
tion Sukra aspects Kanya with Guru in it, Dhanus and Meena 
and Guru aspects Dhanus, Meena and Mithuna with Sukra 
in it. As per general principles in use in astrology, the aspects 
of planets in the above diagram are thus Budha and Sani 
aspect each other, Sani aspects Kuja and Simha, 3rd and 10th. 
Guru aspects Kuja, Meena and Budha, the 5th, 7th and 9th, 
Kuja aspects Mesha with Ravi in it Kataka and Simha or the 
4th, 7th and 8th houses and planets in them. Chandra aspects 
Simha. These are details which have to be borne in mind by 
the readers, who are anxious to master the technicalities of 
these Sutras. Jaimini is very cautious in his statements. He 
asks his readers to study the general principles of astrology, 
and along with their applications to the practical side of 
horoscopes he directs them to remember the general and 
special principles which he has explained in his learned work 
and make predictions, taking both the influences mentioned in 
the general works and also the principles he. has explained 




6 


Jaiminisutra* 


with particular care and on his own responsibility, into con- 
sideration. Ravi and Sani in the diagram according to ordi- 
nary astrology do not aspect each other, but in making 
predictions, we have not only to ascribe the general 6th and 
8th positions, of the Sun and Saturn from each other but also 
the special aspect influences which Jaimini has named here. 
For a novice in general astrology, these observations of the 
Maharishi may appear quite novel but a little practice of these 
principles along with those of the general principles current 
with the astrologers, will show that there will be no difficulty 
and the predictions based on these combined influences will be 
found to be more accurate and to the point. The prelimi- 
naries should be carefully studied and remembered and the 
readers should put them cautiously into practice. Theory and 
practice will make a man perfect. 

H. ftwJTg; II 

Su. 5. — Darabhagyasulasthargala nidhyatuh. 

The fourth, second and eleventh places (or 
planets in them) from the aspecting body are 
Argalas. 

wrong »jyrat 'Treranj; ii 

Su. 6.—Kamasthathu bhuyasa papanam. 

Malefics in the third from the aspecting planet 
give rise to evil A f gala. 

». ft: sitftaw ro n ii 

Su. 7 .—Rihpha neechakamastha virodhinah. 

Planets in the tenth, twelfth and third from Argala 
cause obstruction to such Argala. 



Jaiminisutras 


7 


c % wjjn farrow u 

Su. 8 . — Na nyuna vibalascha. 

If planets obstructing Argala are fewer or less 
powerful than those causing Argala, then the power 
of Argala cannot be affected. 

ii 

Su. 9. — Pragvastrikone. 

The houses or planets in trikonas (5 and 9) 
similarly infleunce the Argala. 

*o. n 

Su. 10 . — Vipareetam kethoh. 

In the case of Kethu the formation of Argala and 
obstruction to it must be calculated in the reverse 
order. 


NOTES 

These sutras require elaborate notes as they are highly 
technical in nature. Unless these are properly understood, 
further progress in Jaiminisutras will become difficult and 
doubtful. In Sanskrit Mathematics, pneumonics of a peculiar 
kind are used and these must be properly mastered. 

In Sutras 32 and 33 of this Pada, Jaimini gives a clue to 
the decipherment of his Sutras. 1 have to anticipate a few of 
the future Sutras here, for the great author himself does so. 
Su. 23 — Sarvatra savarna Bhava Rasayah. 

Su. 33 — Na grahah 

In the indication or designation of the Rasis and the 
Bhavas (Signs and Significations) the author has used, for the 



8 - 


Jaiminisutras 


sake of abbreviation, varnas or single letters. But in the case 
of planets he has not done so, which means, he has used the 
proper names of the planets and not any letters to indicate 
them. I shall explain these differences in the notes below. 
We have in Sanskrit a sutra called *Ka , Ta, Pa, Yadi — These 
are also called the Vargas — Kavarga, Tavarga, Pavarga and 

* Though Suryanarain Rao has elucidated the abbreviations used by 
Jaimini to imply numerals, I propose to make some observations for the 
benefit of the reader. The system of pneumonics employed here is called 
Katapayadi system. The consonants of the Sanskrit alphabet have been 
used in the place of the numbers 1-9 and zero to express numbers. There 
are different variants of this system but I shall explain the most com- 
monly accepted method. (n) and fn) and the vowels denote zero. 
The letters in succession beginning with Ka (^P), Ta (3), Pa and Ya (*T) 
denote the digits ; in a conjoint consonant, e.g. t Kya (^f) only the last 
one denotes a number. According to this system therefore the letters.—* 


ka 

00 

ta 0) 

pa 

(O 

ya 00 denotes 1. 

kha 

00 

tta O) 

pha 

0*0 

ra 0) 

99 

2. 

ga 

00 

da 0) 

ba 

00 

la 00 

99 

3. 

gha 

00 

dha (?) 

bha 

00 

va (?) 

99 

4. 

nga 

(*) 

na 00 

ma 

00 

ssa 00 

99 

5. 

cha 

00 

tha (a) 



sha (?) 

99 

6. 

chha (a) 

thha 00 



sa (a) 

99 

7. 

ja 

00 

da O) 



ha (f) 

99 

8. 

jha 

00 

dha 00 




99 

9. 


A right to left arrangement is employed in the formation of chrono- 
grams. i.e. t the letter denoting units figure is first written, then follows the 
letter denoting the tens figure and so on, e.g., 


ra ma 
2 5 “52. 

1 Jaimini divides the figure so obtained by 12 and takes the remainder as 
denoting a particular sign of the zodiac as reckoned from Mesha. 



Jaiminisutras 


9 


Yavarga. Kavarge contains Kadi Nava or nine letters com- 
mencing from Ka thus — Ka, Kha, Ga, Gha, Jna, Cha, Chha, 
Ja, Jha, or nine letters. 

Tavarga or Tadinava — nine letters beginning with Ta—Tu, 
Tta, Da, Dha, Na, Tha, Thha, Da, Dha, or the nine letters 
of Ta varga. Pavarga or Padi Pancha — five letters commencing 
from Pa. They are Pa, Pha, Ba, Bha, Ma five letters. Yavarga 
yadyashtau or eight letters from Ya. They are Ya, Ra, La, V a, 
Ssa, Sha, Sa and Ha, for the 8 letters of Ya varga. After hav- 
ing learnt these the next sutra in Sanskrit Mathematics is 
Ankanum Vamato gatihi. All figures in Astronomy, Inscriptions 
and Mathematics should be read in the reverse order or as the 
Mohammedans read from right to left. The explanations of 
the following sutras make these aphorisms easy to understand. 

Jaimini uses the word Argala to mean a sort of obstruction 
or impediment for the free flow of planetary influences. A 
planet in a certain house from any desired Bhava or signifi- 
cation or planet, prevents or obstructs the progress of the 
influence and thereby diminishes its value and usefulness. 
These five Sutras give explanations about these Argala influ- 
ences and obstructions and they must be carefully treasured 
up. 

There are two varieties of Argala : shubha or beneficial, 
and papa — or malefic. 

Dara contains two Sanskrit letters da and ra. Da, accord- 
ing to Tavarga given above, represents the 8th letter in that 
group and hence stands for the figure 8, Ra represents the 2nd 
letter in the Yavarga, and hence stands for the digit 2 — thus 
we have by the word dara 82. 

Reading this by the above mathematical Sutra in the 
reverse order we get 28. There are 12 signs or Rasis and 



10 


Jaiminisutias 


when 28 is divided by 12, we get 4 as the remainder. There- 
fore Dara means the fourth house, representing the Argala 
from any desired significance or planet. Now the peculiarity 
is this Dara in Sanskrit language means wife and in general 
astrology, when we say Dara or Darasthana, we signify the 7th 
house form Lagna for a male horoscope. But Dara in Jaimini 
by the iules he has laid down means Four and not seven. 

Bhagya. By the letter interpretation process — Bha, is 
the fourth in the Pavarga and stands therefore for 4, Gya in 
Sanskrit is composed of Ga, and Ya the letter underneath 
the former Ga, and in all compound or conjoined letters the 
lower letter has to be taken into account and not the upper. 
Thus we have here Ya, and it is the first letter in Yavarga 
and stands for 1. We have therefore 41. Reading in the 
reverse order we get 14 and this divided by 12 will give us 
a remainder of 2. Bhagya — 2. Therefore the 2nd house or 
planet from any given Bhava also becomes an Argala planet 
or obstruction. Sula is composed of Ssa and La. In the 
Yavarga, Ssa stands as the fifth letter and represents 5. La 
represents the 3rd letter in Yavarga and therefore stands 
for 3. We thus get the figure 53. But reading in the reverse 
order we have 35. Divided by 12 we get a remainder of 11 
and therefore Sula stands for 11. Those planets which are 
in 4, 2 and 11 from any planet or Bhava in question or 
under consideration, become classified as Argala and obstruct 
their influences. 

In Sutra 6 if many evil planets, more than two as the 
plural is used, are found in Kama or 3rd house, they also 
then become Argala. Ka stands as in Kavarga and Ma 
stands as 5 in the Pavarga. Therefore we have 15. Reading 
in the reverse ordei we get 51. Divide this by 12 and we 



Jaiminisutras 


11 


have the remainder 3. Therefore Kama stands for the 3rd 
house. Kama in Sanskrit means Cupid, passions, wife and 
desires. In the general astrological literature, Kama means 
the 7th house representing husband or wife as the horos- 
cope may belong to a female or a male human being. But 
by the interpretation by letters as directed by the author, it 
means the third. As it is stated here the planets become 
Argala in the 3rd only when there are more than 2 evil 

planets in the 3rd from the questioning planets or Bhava. 

But suppose there is only one evil planet in the 3rd house, 
then by implication it does not become Argala for the 
planet or Bhava. 

In Sutra 7, Ripha means 10, Ra in Yuvarga stands for 2 as 
it is the second letter from Ya and Pha is the second letter in 
the Pavarga and therefore represents 2, putting together we 
get 22. Divide this by 12 we have a balance of 10. Neecha 
stands for 12. Na represents O in the Tavarga as it stands 
as the 10th from Ta and therefore represents a cipher. We 
have only 9 Ankas or digits and the 10th shows a zero. Cha 
stands as the 6th letter from Tavarga and represents 6, 

putting together we have 06. Reading in the reverse order 

we have 60. Divided by 1 2 there will be no balance, but the 
author asks the readers to take always the last balance and 
when 60 is divided by 12 it goes four times (48) and the last 
balance is 12. Therefore Neecha stands for 12. Kama, we 
have already seen, means 3. Those planets which are in 10, 12 
and 3 form an obstruction to the Argala mentioned in Sutra 5. 
Here probably the meaning is that the Argala influences, 
formed by planets mentioned in Sutra 5, good or bad, are 
themselves modified or obstructed by the planetary positions 
mentioned in this Sutra. Those planets which are in the 



12 


Jaiminisutrat 


5th and 9th or Trikonas counteract the influences of the 
Argala planets as explained before. It has been already 
stated that certain planets in certain house cause Argala 
or obstruction and those which are in the 5th and 9th 
counteract these Argala influences. 

Coming to Sutra 8, if fewer planets or powerless or 
disabled planets cause obstruction in Sutra 7 to the Argala 
generated in Sutra 5, then they will not affect the power 
of that Argala. Here it means that the obstructive Argala 
created in Sutra 7, unless the planets are strong, will not be 
able to obstruct the Argala influences caused by planetary 
positions mentioned in Sutra 5. 

Sutra 9 is clear and needs no further explanation. 

With reference to Kethu the order must be reversed 
(. Sutra 10). The 9th from Kethu becomes Argala and the 5th 
from him becomes Pratibandhaka or obstruction. The 
name of Rahu is not mentioned in the original, but some 
commentators are of opinion that the mention of Kethu is 
enough to include Rahu Sutras are short and certainly 
require clearer explanations. Those beneficial planets who 
are in Data 4, Bhagya 2, and Shula 11 from Kethu do 
not form Argala. The malefics in 3rd and 8th from Kethu 
do not form Papargala or evil obstruction. Argala seems 
to be a sort of force or energy, caused by certain positions of 
the planets, and this energy may be beneficial or malicious. 
Power may be good or bad as it is used. 

In the case of Rahu and Kethu the Argala results 
must be calculated in the reverse order. From the 11th 
Sutra Jaimini gives the rules which will guide the student 
in determining the lordship of the various relations and 
events, which have to be taken into consideration, in the 
career of an individual. 



Jaiminisutraa 


13 


«nun$«: ssnfyfhA *rfrr: «yiHw^whi u 

Su . 11 . — A tmadhikaha kaladibhirna bhogassapta- 

namashtanamva . 

Of the seven planets from the Sun to Saturn, or 
the eight planets from the Sun to Rahu, whichever 
gets the highest number of degrees becomes the 
Atmakaraka. 


NOTES 

The word Ashtanamva is emphasised because Rahu, 
instead of being mixed with other planets, seems to have 
been separated for a certain set purpose. The meaning 
becomes evident when we refer to Parasara according to 
whom also, Rahu fills up the gap — when two planets (of 
the seven) possess the same number of degrees. 

If two or three planets obtain the same Kalas or degrees 
and minutes, they are all merged into one Karaka or Lordship 
over some event in the human life. The vacancies caused by 
the merges of two or three planets into one have to be supplied 
by Rahu in the reverse of order. The other Karaka will be 
supplied by the Naisargika Karakas or permanent lords. 
This is a difficult Sutra and requires some clear explanations. 
While all the planets have got movements from left to right or 
direct, Rahu and Ketu move in the reverse order or from 
right to left. The first is called the Savyam or Pradakshinam 
(dextral) and the other is called the Apasavayam or AppradaksM- 
nam (sinistral). Rahu and Kethu have no houses but, Jaimini 
gives lordship of Kumbha to Rahu and Vrischika to Kethu. 
They have been given lordships over some human events. In 
any horoscope, the first duty of an honest astrologer is to find 



14 


Jaiminisutns 


out, the exact positions of ail the planets. This implies a 
good knowledge in Astronomy and astrologico-mathematics. 
Then the degrees, minutes and seconds of the positions of the 
planet are calculated and placed correctly, then the student 
will be able to find out which planet has got the highest 
number of Kalas or degrees in a horoscope. Whoever has got 
the highest number of Kalas, becomes the Atmakaraka. 
These Karakatwas or Lordships, therefore, can be acquired 
according to these Sutras by any planet. Whereas in 
Naisargika, Karakas or permanent lordships are fixed for 
ever. In Naisargika, the Karakas or Lordships are thus 
detailed : — 

In Brihat Jataka, Ravi, Chandra, Sani and Sukra are 
given different Karakaships : Diva arkasukrow pitru, matru 
soungnitou. This means that persons born during the day 
have the Sun and Venus as lords of the father and mother 
respectively. Sanaischarendu nisi ladviparyayat. For persons 
born during the nights, Sani becomes Matrukaraka and Indu 
or Chandra becomes the lord of father . I have simply drawn 
the attention of the readers to the various versions given by 
the different authors. Here we may have pitrukaraka (1) 
Ravi in the Naisargika ‘method’, (2) Chandra as Pitrukaraka 
for those who are bom in the night and (3) any planet out of 
the liine who gets or contains the largest number of degrees 
in a horoscope. Then the question arises as to how a stu- 
dent has to be guided in determining the prosperity and 
adversity of a person’s father. Suppose in the Jaimini sys- 
tem Sani becomes pitrukaraka: Chandra becomes Pitru- 
karaka by the direction of Brihat Jataka and by the general or 
Naisargika system, Ravi becomes the Pitrukaraka. These 
three planets, viz., Ravi, Chandra and Sani are thoroughly 



Jaiminisutras 


15 


different in characteristics and these variations, expounded 
by the learned in Astrology, instead of helping a student in 
the progress of the studies will confound him and launch 
him into greater doubts and confusion. When different 
systems, apparently contradictory, are enunciated by 
eminent Maharishis the wisest thing would be, in my humble 
opinion and experience, to take all of them into careful 
consideration, add his own experience, judge all of them 
with a diligent eye and make a harmonious whole so that 
all of them may prove successful and satisfactory. Take 
half a dozen medical experts in remote corners of the world. 
They experiment and hit upon certain herbs or roots as 
efficacious for certain diseases. Each one succeeds with a 
certain class, and thinks they may prove useful. If all of 
them have succeeded and the results of their experiments 
satisfactory, then a wise physician carefully notes the char- 
acteristics of such of those drugs and roots and he may 
succeed even better than any one of the original experimen- 
tors, by a judicious use of them suitable to times and condi- 
tions of life. Maharishis, by their expanded vision, watched 
and recorded their experiences from different mental visions, 
and gave principles in all such sciences, which, though 
contradictory on the surface, will be found to be agreeable 
on a deeper analysis. Different systems have mentioned 
different periods for death and other important events of 
human life. Bhattotpala, the great commentator of Varaha- 
mihira’s works* hits on a nice system of reconciliation and 
I refer my readers for clearer explanations on my notes to 
Dasantardasa chapter in Brihat Jataka. A man may live upto 
70 or 80 years and may have passed through various critical 
conditions. He will be killed in the period of the strongest 



16 


Jaimlnisutras 


death inflicting planet and have critical dangers during other 
evil periods. 

Take the longevity question. We have the Udu Dasa or 
length of life measured by the planets according to the constel- 
lations ruling at birth. We have secondly Kalachakra Dasas 
and the longevity given by them. Third, we have the Graha 
Datta pindayuryoga or the term of life given by the planets 
to the Foetus at the time of conception. Fourth, we have the 
Amsayurdaya recommended by Satyacharya and followed by 
Varahamihira. Fifth, we have the longevity determined by 
the Gochara movements of the planets. Sixth, the longevity 
as determined by the kendra Ayurdaya. Seventh, we have the 
Dasantar Dasa Ayurdaya. Then, eighthly, we have the Ashtaka- 
varga Bindusodhana Ayurdaya. These eight systems certainly 
give divergent views and different terms. If so, what should 
the astrological student do when all the eight systems give 
eight diffeient periods. Bhattotpala, whom we have not 
seen a more learned commentator on astrological works in 
recent times, reconciles these different systems in the follow- 
ing manner : say a person lives for 50 years and gets various 
periods of longevity from 3 years to 50 years. The suggestion 
of Bhattotpala stands to reason. Suppose the eight systems 
give the following terms of life — 3, 10, 15, 20, 27, 35, 40 and 
50, we are asked to prescribe the longest term obtained as the 
longevity, and the terms indicated by the other systems will 
be periods in the life of the person which will be very critical 
and during which he will suffer from severe diseases, dangers, 
or accidents, but he will manage to get over them and live 
upto the longest term, viz., 50 years as shown by one of those 
systems. Jaiminisutras offer the same explanations. In the typi- 
cal case of Sani, Chandra and Ravi, representing father in the 



Jafminisutras 


17 


case of a single person, then the age and prosperity of the 
father will be determined by the most powerful among them. 
It may also happen that by the three systems, Ravi may be- 
come the lord of father. Then he will live longer and be 
more prosperous and happpy. 

The merging of two or three planets into one karaka has 
to be fully explained. Unless 1 give some illustration, the 
readers will not be able to follow these sutras. The sutra says 
that whichever planet gets the highest number of degrees, be- 
comes the Atmakaraka. Suppose in a horoscope two planets 
get the same number of degrees ; then both of them will 
become Atmakaraka. Take Sani and Chandra in a horoscope, 
and say they have got each 29 degrees and ten minutes. As 
per the above sutra, both of them become merget into one, viz., 
Atmakaraka. When both of them become representing one 
event, viz . . Atmakaraka, there will be a vacancy for some 
other karakatwa say Chandra has merged into Sani and his 
place, representing matrukaraka or some other karaka, falls 
vacant. This, Jaimini says, will be supplied by Rahu. As 
Rahu and Kethu move in the reverse, they will be considered 
as getting the highest number of degrees when they are at the 
beginning of a sign. In the above illustration, suppose Sani 
has 29° and 10' in Aries as also Chandra. Then they will 
naturally have travelled all over Mesha and will be within 
fifty minutes from Vrishabha. Sani and other planets move 
from Mesha to Vrishabha, Mithuna, Kataka, and so forth, 
whereas Rahu moves in the reverse order, viz., from Vrisha- 
bha to Mesha and Mesha to Meena. Rahu will have obtained 
29° and 10' when he is 50' from Meena, for Rahu gains each 
degree as he enters Mesha from Vrishabha and moves on to 
the 1st degree of Mesha before he enters into the next sign 
2 



18 


Jaiminisutras 


Meena. Here as Chandra has merged into Sani, Rahu takes 
that karakatwa which Chandra as a separate planet would 
have taken. Suppose Budha also gets the same degrees, and 
these three represent one karakatwa or signification. Suppose 
now brothers have to be represented. Then Jaimini says take 
the Nisarga Karaka, Kuja, and give him the control over 
brothers, etc., attributed to Kuja in the general literature in 
Astrology. 

Su. 12 -Saeeshtay bandhamokshayoh. 
Atmakaraka gives bad and good results by 
virtue of malefic and benefic dispositions such as 
debility, exaltation, etc. 

NOTES 

When the Atmakaraka is in exaltation or in beneficial 
Rasis or conjunctions, though the person is imprisoned he 
will be liberated, will live in holy places and will have Moksha 
or final Emancipation. But when he is in Neecha Rasi or with 
evil conjunctions and aspects he will be imprisoned, will suffer 
from chains and other tortures, and will not have Moksha. 
But if this debilitated planet has beneficial aspects or conjunc- 
tions, he will be liberated. The idea seems to be the securing 
of final salvation. If the Atmakaraka is exalted and has 
beneficial aspects and conjunctions without any malicious 
influences the man will get the final Bliss called Moksha, so 
ardently coveted by all devotees and the yogis. They desire 
nothing more than' this state of Bliss. Here Bandha and 
Moksha may be interpreted as malefic and benefic results. 



Jaiminisutrat 


19 


Su . 13 . — Thasyanusaranadamatyaha . 

The planet who is next in kalas or degrees to 
Atmakaraka will become Amatyokaraka . 

NOTES 

By careful mathematical calculations the student should 
first find out the positions of planets correctly in degrees and 
minutes. Then fix them up in the horoscope and place the 
Lagna also in degrees and minutes. It will be very easy to fix 
all the planets and also the Lagna in their vargas or minute 
divisions by proper calculations. Unless this part of the work 
is done satisfactorily the application of the principles of 
Astrology, enunciated by Jaimini or other Maharishis, will 
not be possible. And when the foundation is not well laid 
and solidly built, the superstructure can never be durable or 
lasting. After the planets are placed correctly in their degrees 
and minutes, it becomes easy for a student to find out who 
gets the highest number of degrees or Kalas. Whoever gets 
the largest number take him as the Atmakaraka . The planet 
who gets the next highest degrees will be Amatyakaraka. 
Probably when the Amatya or Mantrikaraka is powerful and 
well combined and aspected the person will become a great 
Minister or Councillor. But When he is ill-combined and 
badly aspected and debilitated he becomes an evil councillor 
or an adviser who brings disgrace on himself and also on 
those to whom he offers his counsel. 

wm wm ii 

Sir. 14 . — Tasya bhratha. 



20 


Jaiminisutras 


The planet who gets the highest number of 
degrees next to Amatyakaraka becomes Bhratru- 
karaka or gets lordship over brothers. 

NOTES 

If the Bhratrukaraka is debilitated, joins evil planets and 
has malicious aspects then there will be ruination to brothers. 
He will have no brothers or, if he gets them, they will die or 
become wretched, poor and disgraceful. If, on the other hand, 
the Bhratrukaraka is exalted, well combined and well aspected 
there will be plenty of brothers and prosperity and success 
will attend on them. In the world we have experience of 
various sorts and all these are indicated by the astrological 
authors. 


1^. ?P5t JTTcfT || 

Su. 15 . — Tasya matha. 

The planet who gets the highest number of 
degrees next to Bhratrukaraka becomes lord of the 
mother or Matrukarka. 

t*. s«i u 

Su. 16 . — Tasya putraha. 

The planet who is next in power in degrees to 
Matrukaraka becomes the lord of the children or 
Putrakaraka. 


NOTES 

The Sanskrit Sciences have attached the greatest impor- 
tance to the birth of children. Without children a home is 



Jaiminisutns 


21 


designated as a burial ground or smasana or cemetery. Apu- 
trasya gatirnasti observe the Vedas. This means that a man 
who has no children will have no heaven or Moksha. There 
is a special Hellish River called the Put. One who has no 
Putra will not be able to cross this river Put. He is called a 
Putra who enables the parents to cross this river. If he does 
not cross it, he will have no salvation and he cannot go to 
regions of bliss. In this world what can give a person greater 
pleasure than the possession of healthy, intelligent, obedient 
and prosperous children ? What can delight the hearts of the 
parents more than the playing round about them of their 
happy children ? Can the work of creation continue without 
children ? If there are no children, then the human species 
must cease to exist and the world will be depopulated. Child- 
ren thus become an absolute necessity, for the continuation 
of the human species. But in getting children, there is a very 
great variety. Temperaments are various and curious. It is 
no doubt a source of great pleasuie for a man to have 
children but what is the good of getting bad, deformed, 
repulsive, ungrateful, depraved and rascally children who are 
antagonistic to their parents, who are immoral, cheats and 
otherwise quite undesirable to society, to the nation and to 
the family. Where the Putrakaraka is well situated, exalted, 
in good Shadvargas, in beneficial conjunctions and aspects, 
the children will be blessed with all the virtues which make 
them agreeable, happy, prosperous and dutiful to parents. 
The greatest Epic in India, viz., Ramayana teaches the excel- 
lent duties of children towards their parents and Sri Rama is 
the noblest conception and embodiment of the duties towards 
the parents, relations, friends and the public citizens under 
his royal care. 



22 


Jaiminiautras 


It is better to have no children than to have bad and 
ungrateful ones. 

1». TO 3!#: II 

Su. 17 . — Thasya gnathihi. 

The planet who gets less degrees than those of 
Putrakaraka becomes Gnathikaraka or lord of the 
cousins. 

Among all the nations of the world, cousins form one 
important item, in making the domestic circle happy or un- 
happy. This is specially so among the Hindus, whose laws of 
inheritance and succession to property are peculiar and very 
complicated. There are maternal and paternal cousins and 
nephews. The last are the most formidable, when they are 
adversely situated and most favourable when they are sympa- 
thetic and loving. The condition of the planets who become 
Gnathikarakas will determine the attitude of the cousins and 
the rules for judging of these have already been laid down in 
the previous notes and explanations. 

?ret n 

Su. 18 . — Thasya darascha. 

The planet who gets less degrees than the gnathi- 
karaka becomes Darakaraka or lord of wife. 

NOTES 

The use of cha in this sutra indicates plurality and inclu- 
des the examination of the various Bhavas or significations 
from Lagna, Pada Lagna and Upapada Lagna, which techni- 
calities will be explained later on in the notes. Jaimini 
suggests that the results should not be foretold simply by the 



Jaimrnisutras 


23 


consultations of the karakas alone, but also by the Bhavas 
from Lagna, Pada Lagna and Upapada Lagna. The Science 
of astrology, specially the foretelling of the future, is highly 
complicated and requires the highest form of intelligence, and 
the most profound forms of analytical powers to unravel its 
mysteries and make the future predictions correct. This 
science as well as other sciences require great intelligence and 
erudition, and this will be so specially with astrology which 
deals with all the phenomena in the world and which, there- 
fore, requires the most comprehensive and grasping intellect 
to understand its principles. 

ron a* www fa 11 

Su. 19 . — Matra saha putrameke samamananthi. 

Some Acharyas or authors hold that the Matru 
and putrakarakas may be represented by one and 
the same planet, that is these two Bhavas, lordship 
of mother and children may be judged by the same 
planet. 


NOTES 

Here this union may be interpreted in two ways, viz., 
Matrukaraka includes putrakaraka, and therefore these two 
Bhavas may be foretold by the lord of mother or by the lord 
of children. The planet next in degrees to Bhratrukaraka 
becomes Matrukaraka, and the planet next in degrees to 
Matrukaraka becomes putrakaraka. What Jaimini apparently 
means is that by the planet next in degrees to Bhratrukaraka, 
may be foretold about the prosperity and adversity of the 
mothers and the children. Since Jaimini gives pada, ghatika 
and upapada Lagnas as also the Lagna for the consultation 



24 


Jaiminisutm 


for results, difficulties and confusion have been removed and 
the welfare and misfortunes of mother and children may be 
easily analysed and predicted. 

*o. qftsqrcrong ; apfonsamft n 

Su. 20.— Bhaginyarathassyalaha kaniyajjananee 
cheti. 

Some say that from Kuja should be ascertained 
particulars regarding brothers and sisters, brother- 
in-law, younger brothers and step-mothers. Some 
others hold that predictions relating to step-mother 
should be made from the 8th house. However this 
latter view is not approved by all. 

NOTES 

From Ara or Kuja the sisters, wife’s brothers, younger 
brothers and mother must be examined. In Sutras 15 and 16 
reference to find out the lord of mother has been made. Why 
then again mention about mother? Here from Mars we have 
to find elder and younger sisters, brothers of wife, younger 
brother, step-mother and the maternal aunts. Ara or Kuja 
is the permanent or Naisargika Bhratrukaraka or lord of 
brothers. Some authors by pronouncing Aratha in short A, 
make it A-0, Ra=2 and Tha 6=0.26 and reading it in the 
reverse order we get 620. This divided by 12 will give us 
remainder 8. And ask the readers to find out the above events 
from the 8th house from Lagna. Jaimini does not approve 
of it. 



Jaiminisutras 


25 


W3«i^ wt mq sm dfrn ^wmi 11 

Su. 21 . — Mathuladayo bandhavo matrusojatiya 
ittyuttarataha. 

From Mercury should be ascertained details 
relating to maternal uncles, maternal aunts and 
other maternal relations. 

NOTES 

Take the planet next to Ara or Kuja and he will be 
Budha. The order of the planets must always be remembered 
as in the weekdays — Ravi, Chandra, Mangala, Budha, 
Guru, Sukra and Sani. Therefore when the author says 
Vttarataha or take the next planet, it clearly means Budha. 
From Budha, maternal aunts, maternal uncles and other 
maternal relations like step-mothers should be found out. 
Thus say some others. This means that Jaimini is not in 
agreement with the views of these writers. Like Kechit in 
Brihat Jataka, Ekey in Jaimini is used to indicate other 
schools of thought in Astrological predications. 

qq. ft awj V q fagmfeft snsfan* 11 

Su. 22 . — Pitamahou pathiputraviti gurumukha - 
deva janiyat. 

From Guru the paternal grandmother and 
grandfather, the husband and children must be 
found out. 

Su. 23 . — Patnipitarau swasurou matamaha 
ityante vasinaha. 



26 


Jaiminisutras 


From the next planet from Guru, viz., .Sukra, 
the parents of the wife, or parents-in-law, paternal 
and maternal aunts, maternal grandfather and 
grandmother, and Ante Vasina or disciples must be 
found out. 


NOTES 

If two or three planets get the lordship by getting the 
same degrees, then find out who has got the greater number 
of minutes and seconds, and if the planets are equal in all 
these degrees and minutes and seconds then we are recom- 
mended to take the Nisarga or permanent lords for the 
welfare of the particular events. I shall give here the Naisar- 
gika lordships of planets. 

Ravi . — Atmaprabhavasakti or soul force, reputation, 
vitality and father. 

Chandra. — Manas, Matru, Mani— Mind, Mother and 
Gems. 

Kuja. — Bhumi, Satwa, Bhratru — Lands, Strength and 
Brothers. 

Budha. — Pragnya, Matula, Buddhi, Vacha— intelligence 
uncle, wisdom and speech. 

Guru. — Putra, Vidya, Dhana, Gnana — Children, Education, 
Wealth and Spiritual development. 

Sukra.— Kama, Indriasukha, Kaiatra — passion, sense- 
pleasures and wife. 

Sani. — Ayushyam, Jeevanopayam, Maranam — longevity, 
means of livelihood and death- 

Rahu .— Matamaha or maternal grandfather, Vishakaraka 
or lord governing poison. 



Jaimioisutrag 


27 


Kethu . — Pitamaha or paternal grandfather and Kaivalya- 
karaka or one who gives final bliss. 

I have given here only the most salient points, and for 
greater details I refer my readers to my English translation 
of Sarwarthachintamani. 

nfcg u 

Su. 24 . — Mandojyayan Graheshu. 

Among all the planets, Ravi, Chandra, Kuja, 
Budha, Guru, Sukra and Sani, Saturn is the least 
powerful. 


NOTES 

Varaha Mihira observes in ascribing the Veeryabala 
thus — Sa, Ku, Bu, Gu, Su, Cha, Ra meaning Sani is the 
least powerful in Veeryabala ; next comes Kuja, then Budha, 
then Guru, then Sukra, then Chandra and Ravi represents 
the strongest in Veeryabala. Some writers and commenta- 
tors give the following interpretation which may also be 
acceptable. Mandojyayan Ittyuttarataha. Next to Sukra 
comes Sani in Sutra 23. Therefore from Sani must be 
found out the prosperity and misfortunes of the elder brothers. 

Su. 25. — Pracheevruttirvishamabheshu. 

In all odd signs the counting must be in the 
right direction. 


NOTES 

, Mesha, Mithuna, Simha, Thula, Dhanus and Kumbha 
are odd signs. In all these signs the counting must be from 



28 


Jaiminisutras 


left to right. I will explain in clearer terms. Say we want 
the Sth from Mesha. Then count as Mesha, Vrishabha, 
Mithuna, Kataka, Simha and so forth. 

Su. 26 —Paravrutyottareshu. 

In even signs the counting must be in the reverse 
order. 


NOTES 

Take Vrishabha and we want the 6th from it. There 
we get Vrishabha, Mesha, Meena, Kumbha, Makara and 
Dhanus. Take Thula. It is an odd sign, suppose we want 
the 4th. Then Thula, Vrischika, Dhanus and Makara. Take 
Vrischika and we want the 6th from it. Then we have 
Vrischika, Thula, Kanya, Simha, Kataka and Mithuna. In 
fact, in all odd signs the procedure is in the right direction. 
In even signs we count backwards like the movements of 
Rahu and Kethu in reverse order. Then follows a short but 
very difficult Sutra. Brevity may be the soul of composition, 
but it will be the thorny path to the commentators and 
readers, with ordinary intelligence and education. 

Su. 27. — Nakwachit. 

In some places or signs this does not apply. 

NOTES 

Here the brevity of the Sutra offers the greatest confu- 
sion. What are the places or signs where these rules do not 
apply. When a general principle is laid down why should 



Jaiminisutras 


29 


there be any exceptions? If we had excellent commenta- 
tors, who were almost equal to the original authors and 
some of whom were even superior to their originals, many 
of the Sanskrit Sciences would have been sealed letters and 
none of the modern scholars, though brilliant, have £ot that 
spiritual capacity and concentration of mind to enable them 
to go beyond the screens and find out the literary gems which 
were hidden in the deep mines of Sanskrit Literature. If the 
ancient authors have been held as great benefactors to the 
literary world, the commentators for those works should 
be considered even greater benefactors. What would have 
been the use of the Vedas, if they had not been handled by 
the renowned two commentators Bhatta Bhaskara and 
Vidyaranya. Sanskrit Sciences are put in technical styles 
and Sutras and unless the commentators are scholars of great 
genius and of equal capacity, the original works would have 
remained almost inaccessible and unintelligible to the modern 
generation. For in this Sutra there are two words Na nega- 
tive and Kvachit. at times or occasions. We have no clue 
to when and how these two words have to be used or inter- 
preted. Gathering information from the ancient commentators 
this Sutra signifies while the general rule is to count regularly 
in all odd signs and in the reverse order in the even signs, 
this rule does not apply to Vrishabha and Vrischika and to 
Kumbha and Simha. Here it means that in the even signs 
of Vrishabha and Vrischika, instead of counting in the 
reverse order we have to count in the right way and in 
Kumbha and Simha instead of counting in the right way, we 
have to count in the reverse order. In other signs where 
such exceptions obtain they will be pointed out in thair 
proper places. 



30 


Jaiminisutratf 


tori: 11 

Su. 28 . — Nathaanthaha samaprayena. 

Many of the writers are of opinion, that the 
*Rasi JDasa (period of the sign) extends over such 
number of years which are counted from the Rasi 
to the place where its lord is located. 

NOTES 

Take Mesha ; its lord is Kuja. Say he is in Simha. Count 
from Mesha to Simha ; we get 5. This will be the number of 
years of Rasi Dasa given by Mesha. In all other works, 
Dasas and Bhuktis (periods and sub- periods) are given only 
to planets but never to the zodiacal signs. Jaimini gives Rasi 
Dasas as a peculiar feature of his immortal works. I shall 
try to explain this Sutra in full as otherwise my readers will 
be surrounded by many doubts and difficulties and may 
understand the Sutra altogether in a very perverted sense. 
The number of years of the Rasi Dasa is determined by the 
number of Rasis which its lord has travelled from it at birth. 
Take a horoscope and follow the reasoning. 

We want to find out the Dasa period of years given by 
Mesha. Its lord is Kuja. He is found in the 7th house from 
Mesha. Therefore Mesha Dasa extends for 7 years. We 
want the Dasa period given by Dhanus. Its lord is Guru and 
he is in the 3rd house from Dhanus, and therefore the length 
of Dasa of Dhanus will be 3 years. This point is now clear. 
In Jaiminisutras the lords of the houses are those which are 
recognised by the astrological works in general and T presume 

* I have discussed Rasi Dasa at considerable length in my book 
Studies in Jaimini Astrology. 



Jaiminisutras 


31 



Chandra 

Rahu 

Lagna 

Sani 

Ravi «, 
Budha 
Guru 

RAS1 




Sukra 


Kuja 

Kethu 



the possession of this elementary knowledge in my readers. 
The lords of the 12 zodiacal signs are the following regularly 
from Mesha, viz., Kshitija — Kuja, Sita — Sukra, Gna — Budha, 
Chandra — Moon, Ravi — Sun, Soumya — Budha, Sita — Sukra, 
Avanija — Kuja, Suraguru — Jupiter, Manda — Sani, Souri — 
Sani, Guru — Jupiter — vide my transaction of Brihat Jataka. 
These same planets are also lords of the Amsas or other 
muniter divisions like Drekkana, Navamsa and Dwada- 
samsa. Differences of opinion obtain in all branches of 
knowledge. These differences may arise from various causes. 
World presents such a complicated and comprehensive pheno- 
mena that two observers trying in different directions may 
find different results from the same research or one result 
from different substances. Take one illustration. Two doctors, 
men of high culture with tinges of original genius, far removed 
from each other and quite strangers, may go on experiment- 
ing to find out the best antidote for fever. Each may deal 
with different sets of articles and find a resultant, which will 
have the efficacy of completely curing fever and all such dis- 




32 


Jaiminteutrai 


orders. Similarly in Astrology. Temperaments differ so 
radically in some cases that those who watch them keenly get 
puzzled over them and fail to account for such strange 
phenomena. 

If the lord of the Rasi is in his own house, the sign gives 
12 years of life. If he is in the 12th house the Rasi gives a 
similar period. If he is in the second house he gives one year. 
Some say he gives two years. The word prayena signifies a 
great deal. If the lord of the Rasi is in exaltation, he will add 
one more year to the number he gives by his position. Take 
Vrischika and Kuja in Makara. Here he is in the 3rd house 
from Vrischika and therefore gives 3 years. But as he is in 
exaltation one more year is to be added and thus the Rasi 
gives four years. But if he is in debilitation he takes away 
one year. Thus if we take Mesha and find Kuja in Kataka, 
then he will have to give four years as Kataka is the fourth 
from Mesha but his debilitation has taken away one year and 
instead of four years he gives only three years. There are 
two signs according to Jaimini which have two lords instead 
of one granted by the rules of general astrology. Vrischika 
has two lords, viz, Kuja and Kethu and Kumbha has Sani 
and Rahu. In this case if the two lords are in the sign, then 
the Rasi gives 12 years of Dasa. If one of them is not there, 
then the presence of the other gives no years. When both of 
them are not in the Rasi, then find out the Dasa years by the 
stronger of the two planets. Suppose of these two, one is in 
his own house, and the other in a different house, then count 
up and take the planet in his own house in preference to the 
other who is in a different house. Take Kumbha. It has two 
lords Rahu and Sani. Sani is in Makara and Rahu is in 
Mesha. Here we have to prefer Sani to Rahu as he is 



Jjiminisutras 


33 


in his own house and therefore the longevity or Dasa given 
by Kumbha will be 12 years as Makara is the 12th from 
Kumbha. 

If out of the two lords, in other houses one is with an- 
other planet or planets, and the second is not with a planet 
then take the planet who is in conjunction with another planet. 
Suppose both of them are with other planets. Then take the 
lord who is in conjunction with a larger number of planets. 
Suppose both of them are with the same number of planets. 
Then find out the strength of the Rasi and whichever is more 
powerful, take the planet in it. Here I shall explain what 
is meant by the strength of the Rasi. The fixed signs are 
stronger than movable signs. The double bodied signs arc 
stronger than the fixed ones. If even here the strength of the 
two lords is the same, then take that lord who gives the larger 
number of years. In this way we have to find out who is the 
more powerful of the two lords and ascribe the* Rasi Dasa 
accordingly. If one of them is in exaltation, he should be 
preferred. In this way find out the causes of strength to 
the planet and then prescribe the Rasi Dasa years to it. 

Su. 29 . — Yavadeesasrayam padamrukshanam. 
Arudha Lagna is the point obtained by counting 
as many signs from the place of lord of Lagna as 
the lord of Lagna is removed from Lagna. 

NOTES 

Here Arudha or Pada Lagna is explained. The lord of 
the Lagna at birth must occupy some house. The sign -which 
measures from him in the same number as he is from the 
Lagna will be called Pada Lagna. Take an* example, 

3 



34 


Jaiminisutru 



Chandra 

Rahu 

Lagna 

Sani 

Ravi 

Budha 

Guru 

RASI 




Sukra 


Kuja 

Kethu 

i 


Here we have to find out the Pada Lagna. The lord of 
Lagna is Sukra. He is in the 8th house from Lagna. The 8th 
from Sukra becomes pada. Here the 8th from Sukra is 
Kataka. Therefore it becomes the Arudha or Pada Lagna. 
The uses for which these various Lagnas are enumerated here 
will be explained later on. Jaimini makes his meaning clear 
in the next two sutras. 

*WI: || 

Su. 30 .— Swasthe daraha. 

If Lagnadhipathi is in 4, then the 7th becomes 
Pada Lagna. 


NOTES 

Dara as we have seen is 28, divided by 12 giving a remain- 
der 4. If Mesha is Lagna and Kuja occupies Kataka, he will 
be in the 4th from it. The 4th from Kataka, viz., Thula will 
be the Pada Lagna. 




Jaiminisutras 


35 


li. grot ror n 

Su. 31 . — Sutasthe janma. 

If the lord of Lagna is in the 7th from Lagna, 
then Lagna itself becomes Arudha Lagna. 

NOTES 

He gives another example. If the lord of Lagna is in the 
7th, the 7th from it will be Lagna itself and this becomes 
pada or Arudha Lagna. Suta — su represents 7 and ta indicates 
6. This will be 67. Divided by 12 we get the remainder 7 and 
therefore the 7th house is indicated. The Maharishi gives 
these two examples so that his readers may make no mistakes 
or misinterpretation about the Sutras. I hope my readers now 
have fully understood what is meant by Pada Lagna. In this 
sutra, as the lord of Lagna is in the 7th, the 7th from it will 
be Lagna itself. In this case both Lagna and Pada Lagna are 
one and the same. 

V*. tUTORTCPT: II 

Su. 32 . — Sarvatrasavarna bhavarasyaha. 

All Rasis and Bhavas are studied by Vamada 
Lagna. Hence it will be explained in this aphorism. 

NOTES 

Raghavabhatta, Pantha, Nilakanta and other older 
commentators have given the fullest notes and details on this 
sutra and I have to take the readers along those intricate 
paths. They have introduced Vamada Lagna, Ghatika Lagna, 
Hora Lagna and other details. The following is the full expo- 
sition for all these. Readers are advised to have a large fund 



36 


Jaiminisutras 


of patience and devote some time to master these, details. 
In all the following sutras of Jaimini, Varnas or Katapayadi 
letters are used to indicate Bhavas and Rasis. But for planets 
their various names are used and they should not be inter- 
preted with the help of such letters. For those who are born 
in odd signs count from Mesha in the regular order, for those 
who are boin in even signs count from Meena backwards till 
we get to Bhava Lagna and keep these figures on one side. Again 
count for those who are born in odd signs from Mesha to 
Hora Lagna in the regular order and for those born in even 
signs count from Meena to Janma Lagna in the reverse order, 
and deduct the smaller figures from the larger and counting 
again from Mesha forwards to the number of remainder, and 
fix - that Rasi as the Varnada Rasi for odd signs and for 
persons born in even signs counting back from Meena to the 
number of Rasis given by the figure, take that Lagna as the 
Varnada Lagna. This will certainly be not intelligible, unless 
a few examples are given here to illustrate the principles 
involved. Varieties of Lagnas will be explained here. 

Bhava Lagna — used in Jaimini- -means the ordinary Lagna 
as is mentioned in the ordinary books on Astrology. The sign 
that rises at birth on any particular day. 

Chandra Lagna — or the Janma Rasi, is that sign in which 
Chandra is situated at the time of birth. This is determined 
by constellation ruling on that day. 

Pada Lagna — means that sign in number again from the 
position of the lord of Lagna which he occupies from Lagna. 

Hora Lagna — Take the time of birth from the sunrise and 
fix it in ghatis. Then divide this number by 2\ which is called 
a Hora and the -number thus obtained represents the Hora 



Jaiminisutras 


37 


Lagna. Take an example. A man was born on the 3rd of the 
solar month Kumbha at 14£ ghatis after sunrise. 

Now 14£ ghatis divided by 2£ will give us 5 and 2 ghatis 
as a remainder. Therefore the Hora Lagna falls in the 6th from 
Kumbha — Kanya. Take a person born on the 2nd of the 
solar month. Vrischika at about 29 ghatis after sunrise. 
Dividing this by 2\ ghatis we get 11 and a remainder 1$ 
ghatis. That- is, the Hora Lagna will be the 12th from the 
sign occupied by the Sun, viz., Vrischika or it falls in Thula 
the 12th from it. If, suppose the man is born on that day at 
48 ghatis after the sunrise then divide this by 2\ ghatis. We 
get 19 and a remainder of \ ghati. Therefore the Hora Lagna 
falls in the 20th. As there are only 12 signs, deduct this figure 
from 20 and we get 8. Therefore the 8th from Vrischika will be 
the Hora Lagna and it falls in Mithuna. Here also the order, 
already named for odd and even signs, should be observed. 

Ghatika Lagna — From the sunrise to the time of birth find 
out how many ghatikas have passed and find out the Rasi 
which falls at the time, and this will be easy to understand. 
Say a man is born at 25 ghatis after sunrise on the 2nd of 
Vrishabha Masa. Then take 25 ghatis and count from Vrisha- 
bha ; whenever, the figure of ghatis is more than 12 deduct 
or divide the number of ghatis and find out the remainder. 
25 divided by 12 will give us a balance of 1 after going twice. 
Thus in this case the ghatika Lagna falls in one and therefore 
in Vrishabha itself. 

Varnada Lagna— We have already explained this and we 
will give clearer explanations later on. As Jaimini insists on 
Savya— right and Apasavya— left for odd and even signs our 
readers must understand this point clearly and keep before 
their vision in all huntings for the various Lagnas. An Indian 



38 


Jaiminisutras 


ghati means 24 minutes of English time. An hour means 2$ 
ghatis. A minute means 2\ vighatis. The minuteness of the 
divisions of time, reached by the Indian astronomers, is 
simply astounding. The Europeans have no idea of them. I 
shall give them here for ready reference. The European con* 
ception of the minute divisions of time is as follows. A day is 
divided into 24 hours. An hour is divided into 60 minutes. A 
minute is divided into 60 seconds. Here ends their conception 
of time. 24 x 60 x 60 or one day contains 86,400 seconds. This 
i the highest idea of the European conception of the divisions 
of time for a day. 

Take the conception of the division of Time by the Indian 
Astronomers. In the uttara gograhana or the release of the 
cattle, Arjuna went to effect their release and Duryodhana, 
Emperor of Hasthinapura, takes objection to the appearance 
of Arjuna before the stipulated time for their Agnathavasa or 
incognito existence for 12 years. Bhishma, the greatest 
warrior, saint and philosopher in the whole of Mahabharata, 
explains the astronomical details and calculations of time and 
convinces Duryodhana, that the time of 12 years imposed on 
the Pandavas passed away the previous day and Arjuna was 
justified in his appearance for the release of the cattle. Accor- 
ding to Aryan Astronomers a day is divided into 60 ghatis. 
Each ghati is divided into 60 vighatis. Each vighati is divided 
into 60 Liptas. Each lipta is divided into 60 Viliptas. Each 
vilipta is divided into 60 paras and each para is divided into 
60 Tatparas. The figure? when multiplied stand thus : one day 
60 Gh. x 60 V.G. x 60 L x 60 V.L. x 60 P. x 60 TP. or 
60x60x60x60x60x60. My good readers, this humble figure 
when multiplied will give you 46656000000. 



Jaiminisutras 


39 


Imagine here the conception of the minuteness of time by 
the Maharshis and their intellect. A day in the calculation of 
Hindu astronomers contains the above number of Tatparas. 
This can possibly be conceived by the highest human intellect 
under the highest yogic and experienced Divya Drishti or 
Divine vision and can never be the work of ordinary mortals 
however high their genius may be. I leave my readers to 
judge of these facts with their own intelligence and not be 
guided by the stupid theory of Hindus borrowing their Astro- 
logy from the barbarous Greeks and Chaldeans. Has any man 
in the world conceived divisions of time more minute ? If so, 
who is he and where can we find him. 

W II 

Su. 33. — Nagrahaha. 

Varnada is not to be applied for the planets but 
only for Rasis. 

In all the sutras of Jaimini, the Ka, Ta, Pa, Yadi sutra of 
interpreting the language should not be applied to the planets. 
The author means that the grahas or the planets are designa- 
ted by their various names and never by the letter system. 

V*. n 

Su. 34. — Yavadwivekamavrittirbhanam. 

Divide Rasi Dasas by 12 and distribute the same 
to the 12 Rasis in proportion to the Rasi Dasa 
periods to get sub-periods. The counting should be 
from right to left if Lagna is odd sign and vice versa 
if even. * 



49 


Jaiminisutras 


NOTES 

Interpreting of Viveka — Va.-4 Va.-4 Ka-1 — or 441 or read- 
ing in the reverse order we get 114. All the Rasis put 
together at 12 each will come up to 144. Take the Rasi Dasa 
year and divide that into 12 bhagas, multiply the Mesha Dasa 
Rasi by 12. Then divide the total by 12 and the quotient will 
represent the Antardasa years. Even here the readers are 
advised to count and follow the odd and even signs in the 
right and left directions as has been already explained. Sutras 
are meant really for those who have bright brains. 

V*. $REt: II 

Su. 35 . — Horadayaha siddhaha. 

From the general literature of Astrology learn 
all the details about Hora, Drekkana, Saptamsa, 
Navamsa, Dwadasamsa, Trimsamsa , Shashtiamsa , 
etc. 

NOTES 

Where the Maharishi does not differ from the ordinary 
rules of Astrology, he says siddaha, meaning they are ready 
at hand from able astrologers. Wherever he cuts a new path 
he indicates the lines of research on which he proceeds. These 
commentaries are written by Neclakanta and go under the 
name of Suboda. The term Suboda means that the commenta- 
ries are written in such an easy and convincing style that 
even ordinary readers and students can easily grasp the ideas 
explained by the learned commentator I have also consulted 
other learned commentators. 

End of First Pads of the First Adhyaya 

tfn ronrq;: u 



tt II 

ADHYAYA 1-PADA 2. 

i. 11 

Su. 1 . — Adhaswamsograhanam. 

Having determined the Atmakaraka from among 
the several planets, ascertain the results of his 
Navamsa position. 

NOTES 

Among all the planets commencing from Ravi, find out 
who gets the greatest number of degrees and minutes and 
determine, as principles already explained, who becomes the 
Atmakaraka. In Sutra 1 1 of the first pada it has been clearly 
enunciated that whichever planet gets the highest number of 
degrees and minutes, he becomes the Atmakaraka. Such a 
planet, whoever he may be among the nine planets, must 
occupy some Navamsa. In all the future sutras, the effects of 
such Navamsa occupied by the Atmakaraka, the planets who 
are there and the planets who aspect such Navamsa will be 
clearly detailed. Find out by mathematical calculations the 
position of all the planets in degrees and minutes and then 
the results can easily be foretold in the light of the following 
sutras. Find out the Atmakaraka and place him in the proper 
Navamsa. Prepare also the Navamsa Chakra correctly. 

r. wiJMitiMftn: ii 

Su. 2. — Panchamooshikamarjaraha. 



42 


Jaiminisutras 


If the Atmakaraka occupies Mesha Navamsa, 
then the person will be subjected to the fears and 
bites of rats, cats, and other similar animals. 

NOTES 

Pancha means one or Mesha. Pa stands for 1 in Pavarga. 
Cha stands for 6 in the Tavarga . Thus we get 16, reading in 
the reverse ordei we get 61. Divide this by 12 we get the 
remainder 1 and this stands for the first sign in the Zodiac or 
Mesha Navamsa. 

V TO II 

Su. 3.—Tathra chatushpadaha. 

If Atmakaraka is in Taurus Navamsa, there will 
be fear from quadrupeds. 

NOTES 

Ta means 6 and Ra means 2 or 62 reversed we get 26, 
divided by 12 we get 2 remainder which means the 2nd house 
from Mesha or Vrishabha. Navamsa. If Atmakaraka occupies 
Vrishabha Navamsa the person will have gains and haypiness 
from quadrupeds like cattle, horses, elephants, etc. Some 
commentators say he will have troubles and worries through 
them. I think, when Atmakaraka is weak or has evil aspects 
or associations troubles should be predicted. Others write 
prosperity from them. 

». t site* * II 

Su. 4 . — Mrithyow kandooh sthoulyam cha. 

If Atmakaraka occupies Mithuna the person will 
suffer from corpulence, itches and cutaneous 
eruptions. 



Jaiminisutras 


43 


NOTES 

Ma represents 5 and Ya represents 1 or 51 reading inver- 
sely we get IS. Divided by 12 we have the balance of 3 and 
this represents the 3rd Navamsa from Mesha or Mithuna. 

^ 33*3*81$: II 

Su. 5. — Durejalakushtadih. 

If the Atmakaraka occupies Kataka Navamsa, 
dangers and troubles come from watery places and 
leprosy. 


NOTES 

Da stands for 8 and Ra represents for 2 or 82. Reversing 
it, we have 28. Divided by 12 we get the balance of 4 and 
this refers to Kataka as the fourth from Mesha. Dirty form 
of leprosy or watery disease rises from blood corruption and 
the use of filthy water. 

Su. 6 . — Seshaha swapadani. 

If the Atamakaraka. joins Simha Navamsa, trou- 
bles will come through dogs and such canine 
animals. 


NOTES 

Ssa represents 5 and Sha indicates 6 or 56, reading back- 
wards we have 65. Divided by 12 we get 5 remainder and Simha 
counts as the 5th from Mesha. Here in all these Sutras the 
class of animals or diseases is indicated and the reader has 
to use his intelligence. 



44 


Jaimioisutrat 


Su. 7. — Mrithyuvajjayagnikanascha. 

If Atmakaraka is in Kanya Navamsa, the native 
will suffer from fire, itches, and corpulence. 

NOTES 

Ja represents 8 and ya denotes 1. We get 81, in the reverse 
order we get 18, divided by 12 we have the balance 6 and 
Kanya Navamsa represents the 6th from Mesha. If the Atma- 
karaka joins Kanya Navamsa the person will suffer from the 
troubles indicated by the 3rd Rasi or Mithuna and also from 
fires. But in Mithuna the author only said that suffering will 
come from corpulence and itches. 

From this Sutra it means that in the Mithunamsa there 
will also be trouble from fires. 

«. ssrft mftrarat m 

Su. 8 . — Labhe vanijyam. 

If the Atmakaraka joins Thula Navamsa, the 
person will make much money by merchandise. 

NOTES 

La denotes 3 and Bha stands for 4, this stands as 34. In 
the reverse order it is 43, divided by 12 we get 7 as the 
remainder. Thula stands as the 7th Navamsa from Mesha. 
The various kinds of articles in merchandise have to be found 
out by the nature of the Rasi, its lord, the planets who are in 
conjunction and the aspects they have. 

Su. 9 . — Atra jalasareesrupaha sthanyahanischa. 



Jaiminisutras 


45 


If the Atmakaraka joins Vrischikartlsa, the per- 
son will have fears and dangers from watery ani- 
mals, snakes and he will also have no milk from 
his mother. 

Atra-Aa O-Ra 2-02, reversed it means 20 divided by 12 we 
get a balance of 8 which signifies Vrischika counting from 
Mesha Navamsa. When he is a child he will have to be nursed 
and suckled by others for want of milk in his mother’s breast.' 
There are some women who have plenty of milk in their 
breasts and who nurse their children with their own milk and 
sometimes the milk will be sufficient for even two or three 
children. Their breasts may not be large or heavy but their 
lacteal glands do make brisk work and secrete milk. There 
are, on the other hand, a large number of women who have 
large lumps of breasts without any milk, but full of flesh and 
making the breasts attractive and heavy. The author apparen- 
tly considers that the absence of milk in the mother will be a 
misfortune for the child. The artificial feeding of children from 
nipples attached to feeding bottles has removed this mis- 
fortune, to some extent. Remember it is not the mother who 
feeds the infant. A rubber bottle is not a mother’s holy breast. 
Nor does it contain the natural milk of the mother with the 
maternal love and affection pervading throughout its contents. 

% ® . aft a i fwfi w m\m*n ii 

Su. 10. — Same vahanaducchaccha kramat 
patanam. 

If the Atmakaraka joins the Navamsa of Dhanus, 
the person will have suffering and dangers from 
falls, from conveyances, horses, etc., and also 



46 


Jaiminisutras 


from elevated places like trees, houses, hills and 
mountains. 


NOTES 

Sa denotes 7, Ma shows 5, 75 reading reversely we have 57, 
divided by 12 will give us a balance of 9 and Dhanus is the 
9th Navamsa from Mesha. Aeroplanes may be safely included 
in these falls. Dangers are indicated by these falls. 

\ % . arerst? tNt gssinwar n 

Su. 1 1 . — Jalachara khechara kheta kandu dushta- 
granthayascha riphay. 

If the Atmakaraka joins Makara the person will 
have troubles and sorrows from aquatic animals, 
from fierce birds, skin diseases, large wounds and 
glandular expansions. 


NOTES 

Ri 2 and Pha 2 = 22, divide this by 12 we have a remainder 
of 10, meaning Makaramsa as it is the 10th from Meshamsa. 

There will be troubles from Khetas. Grahashave two 
important significations, viz., planets and evil spirits : some 
read the sutra as Bhuchara instead of Khechara , and include 
such wild animals as lions, tigers, boars and other fierce 
animals found wandering on the earth. Planets and evil spirits 
occupy the higher regions. Kha means the sky or the 
higher sphere. 

Su. 12 . — Tatakadayo dharmay. 



Jaimlafeutras 


47 


If the Atmakaraka occupies Kumbha Navamsa 
the person will do charities in the shape of con- 
structing wells, tracks, topes or gardens, temples 
and dharmasalas or chatrams. 

NOTES 

Dha stands for 9 and Ma denotes 5, thus we get 95 revers- 
ing we get 59. Divided by 12 we get remainder 11, denoting 
Kumbha, the Navamsa 11th from Mesha. 

H. ^ * u 

Su. 13.— Uchhe dharmanityata kaivalyam cha. 

If the Atmakaraka occupies Meenamsa, the 
person will be fond of virtuous deeds and charities, 
and will take residence in Swargadi Lokas or will 
attain to the final bliss or what is called by the 
Sanskrit writers Moksha or final emancipation or 
freedom from rebirths. 

NOTES 

V stands for 0, Cha denotes 6, we get 06, reading in- the 
reverse order we get 60. Divide this by 12 the balance will be 
12 and therefore Meena Navamsa is indicated by the term 
uchcha. 

Among the Yogis and real Vedantists their sole aim or 
final goal is to get rid of these punarjanmas or constant birth 
and get final assimilation with Para Brahma. The old commen- 
tators have offered some valuable suggestions. I shall quote 
them here for ready reference. 



Jaiminisutra* 


48 

If the Atmakaraka is in a beneficial Navamsa or if bene- 
ficial planets are in Kendras from the Navamsa he occupies, 
the person will become very wealthy or a ruler. If the next 
planet to Atmakaraka occupies a beneficial sign or Navamsa, 
or found in his own house or beneficial sign or in exaltation or 
in good Navamsas, he will have residence, after death, in 
Swargalokas according to merit. If both of them are auspi- 
ciously situated, the person will get good Bliss and after a 
prosperous and happy career will go to Heaven. If they have 
mixed positions, conjunctions and aspects, he will have some 
good and some bad. If both of them are badly situated com- 
bined and aspected, he will suffer miseries, poverty and will 
take residence, after death, in various Hells enumerated in the 
Hindu Sastras like Kumbhipatha, Andha, Tamisra, etc. 
There are fourteen Lokas mentioned and principally three 
namely Swarga tenanted by the Devatas who are headed by 
Indra, Bhuloka inhabited by mortals called Martya, and 
Patala inhabited by special creatures called Nagas. A person 
in Gandharva or Siddhaloka is not so happy as one in Indra 
Loka. One who resides in Brahmaloka enjoys superior Bliss 
to that which he can have in Devaloka. When evil planets 
predominate the temperament will be mixed and his deeds 
will be bad and sinful. When benefics predominate they 
produce favourable results both here and also enhance his 
pleasure in Heaven after his death. As for the comparison 
of pleasures, see Anandavalli Upanishad and also numbers 1 1 
and 12 of Vol. 19 of The Astrological Magazine 

IV. TO ttTOlfat II 

Su. 14. Tatra ravou rajakaryaparaha. 



Jaiminisutras 


49 


If the Sun occupies the Karakamsa, the person 
will be fond of public service and will work in 
political activities. 


NOTES 

Here it means, that Ravi must be in conjunction with the 
Atmakaraka in the Navamsa. His success here may be deter- 
mined both by the nature of the Navamsa and also by his 
relation to the Atmakaraka who may change to be his friend, 
bosom friend, neutral or enemy or bitter enemy. All these 
different stages are suggested by the Maharishi in compliance 
with the general principles of Astrology, which he enumerates. 

finrrsMt * ti 

Su. 15 . — Poornendusukrayorbhogee vidyajeevee 
cha. 

If Full Moon and Venus join Atmakaraka in 
the Navamsa, the person will command great 
wealth and all comforts attandant on wealth and he 
will also earn money and live by the profession of 
education. 


NOTES 

In all these the strength, position and association of 
Atmakaraka will have great influence in determining the rank 
and position in the line. A school authority will be great or 
small as he gets fat or low salary. 

U. 

Su. 16. — Dhatuvadee komtayudho vahnijeevee 

cha bhoume. 

4 



so 


Jaiminisutras 


When Kuja joins Atmakaraka in the Navamsa, 
the person becomes great in the preparation of va- 
rious medical mixtures, will bear arms like kunta- 
yudha and other weapons, and live by profession 
involving preparations in or near fire. 

NOTES 

The gunners, cooks, engine drivers and those engaged in 
various preparations in or near fire are indicated. Alchemy 
comes in this line of work. 

s ®. sflETCFsjenm: ftfv'Ht mcfgKfeq ar u 

Su. 17. — Vanijatantuvayaha silpino vyavahara- 
vidascha soumye. 

If Budha conjoins the Atmakaraka in the Nav- 
amsa, the persons become merchants, weavers and 
manufacturers of clothes, artists and persons clever 
in preparing curios, and those well versed in the 
affairs of social and political matters. 

*<s. aftl ii 

Su. 1 8 . — Karmagnananishta vedavidascha jeevay. 

When Guru joins the Navamsa with Atma- 
karaka, the person will be well versed in Vedic or 
religious rituals, will have riligious wisdom, well- 
known in the rules of sacrificial functions and will 
have good knowledge in Vedanta and will be a 
-eligious man. 



Jaiminisutras 


51 


5Rlf^f*TW II 

Su. 19. — Rajakeeyaha kaminaha satendriyascha 
sukre • 

If Sukra joins the Atmakaraka in the Navamsa, 
the person will become a great official or political 
personage, will be fond of many women and will 
retain vitality and sexual passions till he is 
hundred years old. 


NOTES 

He will be fond of women and sexual pleasures and in 
spite of these sexual excesses he will retain passions for a 
very long period. 

Sexual passions are as various and as curious as any 
other phenomena. Some get prematurely old and lose their 
sexual vitality. Othcrr retain sexual vigour for more than a 
hundred years. 

* 0 . ate: II 

Su. 20. — Prasiddhakarma jeevaha sanow. 

If Sani joins Atmakaraka in the Navamsa, he 
will produce a famous person in his own line of 
business. 


NOTES 

The author apparently means that when Sani joins the 
Atmakaraka in the Navamsa, a person will be able to achieve 
greatness and reputation in whatever walk of life he may be 
engaged. There are great writers, painters, sculptors, spea- 
kers, merchants, warriors, statesmen, travellers, inventors. 



52 


Jaiminisutras 


discoverers, scientists, musicians and so forth, the profession 
or line of work being determined by other combinations in 
the horoscope. Sani with the Atmakaraka in the Navamsa 
lifts the person to a high position in that line and gives him 
great reputation and name. 

^i. w^>wlV<w u 

Su. 21 .— Dhanushkaschouvrascha jangalikaloha- 
yantrinascha rahow. 

If Rahu joins the Atmakaraka in Navamsa the 
person will live by the skillful use of warlike instru- 
ments, he will earn bread as thief and dacoit ; he 
becomes a doctor dealing in poisons, manufacturer 
of gold, silver, copper and other metallic machinery. 
nvawMyftnwfara u 

Su. 22 . — Gajavyavaharinaschourascha kethau. 

When Kethu joins the Atmakaraka in the Nav- 
amsa the persons born under such combination 
trade in elephants or become thieves and robbers. 

NOTES 

Between thieves and dealers in elephants the line of 
demarcation seems to be delicate. 

n. tfK lg grf g’t EP W q, I 

Su. 23 . — Ravirahubhyam sarpanidhanam. 

If Ravi and Rahu join Atmakaraka in the 
Navamsa the person dies by snake-bites. 



Jaiminisutras 


53 


NOTES 

Snakes are of various kinds and -the nature of the causes 
will be determined by other planetary positions. 

Su. 24 . — Subhadrishte thannivrittihi. 

If benefics aspect the Yoga mentioned above, 
there will be no deaths from snake-bites. 

NOTES 

He may have snake-bites, but relief proper will be at 
hand and the person will get over the danger. 

. Su. 25. — Subhamatrasambandhajjangulikaha. 

If Ravi and Rahu join Atmakaraka in the Nav- 
amsa and have only beneficial aspects, the person 
will have no snake-bites, but will become a doctor 
who deals solely in poisonous matters. 

Su. 26 —Kujamatradrishte grihadahako agnido va. 

If Ravi and Rahu join Atmakaraka in the Nav- 
amsa, and have the evil aspect of Kuja, the person 
will burn houses or lend fire and other help to the 
incendiaries. 


NOTES 

There is some difference in the guilt of the person who 
burns a house and one who helps him in his diabolical deeds. 



54 


Jaiminisutras 


*». H TO: H 

Su. 27 . — Sukradrishte na dahaha. 

If Ravi and Rahu join Atmakaraka in the Nav- 
amsa and have the aspect of Sukra, the person will 
not burn the houses himself, but will lend fire to 
the rogues who do it. 

NOTES 

The abettor is equally culpable in the eye of law and the 
delicate difference of burning the house and lending fire to 
burn the house, seems to be a nice point for consideration of 
the Dharmasastras and legal luminaries. 

Su. 28 . — Gurudrishe twasameepagrihat. 

If Ravi and Rahu join Atmakaraka in the Nav- 
amsa, but have the aspect of Guru alone, the per- 
son will burn houses at a distance from his own 
house. 


NOTES 

Apparently Sukra’s aspect will intensify the evil tenden- 
cies and aggravate the offences, by burning houses close to 
one’s own house. 

Su. 29 . — Sagulike vishado vishahato va. 

If the Karaka Navamsa falls in Gulikakala or 
the time governed by Gulika, the person will admi- 



Jaiminisutras 


55 


nister poison to others and kill them or be killed 
by such administrations of poison by others. 

NOTES 

Here we have to learn what is meant by Gulikakala and 
the time governed by him. Ravi, Chandra, Kuja, Budha, 
Guru, Sukra and Sani' are called Grahas. They have Upa- 
grahas or their sons. Sukra and Chandra have not been given 
any Upagrahas. The latter are Sani-GW/Aa, Guru -Yamaghan- 
taka, Kuja -Mritya, Ravi -Kala and Budha -Ardhaprahara. 
Divide the duration of the day by 8 and proceed to count 
from the lord of the day. Take Sunday and suppose the 
•duration of the day is 30 ghatis. Then each part gets or 
3|- ghatis. 

The first 3J ghatis are governed by Ravi the lord of that 

day. 

The second 3| ghatis are under the rule of Chandra. 

The third 3| ghatis are governed by Kuja. 

The fourth 3| ghatis are under the lordship of Budha* 

The fifth 3J ghatis are ruled by Guru. 

The sixth 3| ghatis are under Sukra. 

The seventh 3| ghatis are ruled by Sani. 

The 8th 3£ ghatis have no lord and Gulika who is next 
to Sani becomes the lord. These 3| ghatis are called Gulika- 
kala and if the Atmakaraka Navamsa falls in this time, the 
results above named must be predicted. 3| ghatis is called 
a Yam a in Sanskrit. 

* If the duration of day is more or less than 30 ghatis then each part is 
indicated bv the actual duration of day divided by 8. 



36 


Jaiminisutns 


Take Chandrawara or Monday. 

First Chandra 3| ghatis. Fourth Guru 3J ghatis 

Second Kuja 3| ,, Fifth Sukra ,, 

Third Budha 3-| ,, Sixth Sani 3| ,, 

AH these six give 22£ ghatis 
Seventh Gulika 3| ghatis 

Eighth Ravi 3!j ,, 

After this comes in Gulikakala extending from 22^ ghatis 
on Monday and lasting upto 26| ghatis. On Tuesday or 
Kujawara we commence from Kuja thus : — 

1. Kuja 3| ghatis 5. Sani 3| ghatis 

2. Budha 3f „ 6. Gulika 3| „ 

3. Guru 3J ,, 7. Ravi 3J „ 

4. Sukra 3-| ,, 8. Chandra 3^ ,, 

The first 5 yamas give us 18f ghatis. From that time 
till 22\ ghatis after sunrise, there will be Gulikakala and if 
the Atmakaraka Navamsa falls in this, the evil results indi- 
cated above will happen. The Gulikakala has been so stated 
by the commentators. I have another authority for the 
Gulikakala. Mandapan watapariansam chaturgunyam dwihi- 
nakam. Tatkala gulikognayaha sarva karya vinasakritu. Count 
from Saturday to the weekday required. Take the number 
so obtained and multiply it by four. Then take or deduct 
2 from the number so obtained. Then Gulikakala commen- 
ces at the time and continues upto 3| ghatis more. The 
results differ in these two systems. Take Monday and find 
out the Gulikakala as per the above rule. Monday counts 
as the 3rd from Saturday. Multiply this 3 by 4 and we get 
12. Deduct two out of that and we get 10 ghatis. Gulika- 



Jiaminisutras 


57 


kala falls on Monday from 22 \ ghatis to 26| ghatis after 
sunrise. The process to find out the Gulikakala in the night 
is thus stated by the old commentators. Take the fifth planet 
from the lord of the weekday and count from him and then 
the 8th in the order given above will be Gulikakala. Take 
for example Sunday, the Sth from him is Guru. Now take 
Guru. Dropping Guru we have Sukra and Sani covering the 
first and second period, and the 3rd period falls under Gulika 
on Monday, the second period on Tuesday, the 8th period on 
Wednesday, the 7th on Thursday, the 6th on Friday and the 
5th on Saturday. When there are differences of opinion on 
such matters among the old writers we have to look to the 
opinion of the best among them, and to verify and support 
the theory we must also bring our large experience to help us 
in such interpretations. Take Hora, Varahamihira and his 
school. Say, that in odd signs the first Hora is governed by 
Ravi and the second by Chandra. In the even signs the first 
is governed by Chandra and the second by Ravi. But there 
is a different school. Some say that first Hora is governed 
by the lord of the house and the second by the lord of the 
11th. In Drekkana more than two systems are recommended. 
Varahamihira says the lords of the three Drekkanas are the 
lords of 1st, 5th and 9th. There are some others who say 
that the lords of the 3 Drekkanas are the lords of 1st, 12th 
and 11th houses. There are some others who say that in 
chara or movable signs, the lords of the Drekkanas are the 
owners of the 1st, 5th and 9th. But in fixed and double 
bodied signs their order is quite changed. In all such cases 
of difference of opinion among the Maharishis I cannot 
pretend to say which is correct and which is not. Both may 
be correct as the authors, by their Divya Drishti, may have 



58 


Jaiminisutraa 


approached from different directions and may have found" 
their observations proving quite true. I leave the readers to 
judge of these differences in the light of their intelligence, 
knowledge and personal experiences. When two Maharishis 
differ I must frankly tell my readers that I have no means at 
my command to ascertain which is better and more correct. 
Both of them are Mahatmas and both looked into these de- 
tails by their Divya Drishti or expanded mental vision. I 
possess no such Divya Drishti and therefore am not in a 
position to go beyond the phenomena and ascertain the true 
causes. I have to trust the learned commentators. 

V». q s graV gr u 

Su. 30. — Chandradrishtau chorapahritadhana- 
schouro va. 

If Chandra aspects the Atmakaraka Navamsa 
falling in Gulikakala, the person will be a receiver 
of stolen property or will become himself a thief. 

NOTES 

I think there is not much difference between the moral 
and spiritual offences between these two worthies. 

Su. 31 . — Budhamatradrishte brihadbeejaha. 

If the Atmakaraka Navamsa falls in Gulikakala 
and possesses only the aspect of Budha, the person 
will have enlarged testicles. 

NOTES 

Here Budha alone must aspect the Navamsa without the 



Jaiminisutras 


59 


aspect of any other planets. Hydrocele is a nasty form of 
disease and disgusting before the public. 

to *n 11 

Su. 32 .—Tathra kethow papadrishte karnachche- 
daha karnarogo va. 

If Ketu joins the Atmakaraka Navamsa the 
person will have his ears cut off or will have serious 
ear complaints. 

Su. 33 . — Sukradrishte deekshitaha. 

If Atmakaraka and Kethu in the Navamsa, have 
the aspect of Sukra, the person will become a Deek- 
shita or performer of Yagnyas or religious sacrifices. 

NOTES 

Formerly such persons were held in high esteem. They 
had to lead scrupulously clean, simple and holy lives. 

V*. u 

Su. 34 . — Budhasanidrishte nirveeryaha. 

If the Atmakaraka with Kethu in the Navamsa 
has the aspects of Budha and Sani, the birth of an 
impotent or eunuch should be predicted. 

NOTES 

Veerya is virility in a person and one who has no veerya 
is impotent. 

V*. vbr: S&St ST || 

Su. 35 . — Budhasukradrishte pounah puniko dasi- 
putree va. 



60 


Jaiminisutras 


If the Karakamsa Rasi with Kethu has the aspect 
of Sukra and Budha, the person will talk repeating 
and repeating the same ideas or will be the son of a 
prostitute or dancing women. 

NOTES 

Dasis are a special class of dancing women who were 
devoted to the service of Gods in the temples and had no 
strictness in sexual matters. 

w. gl ft p S fraft 51 II 

Su. 36 . — Sanidrishte tapaswee preshyo va. 

If the Karakamsa with Kethu has the aspect of 
Sani, he will become a Tapaswi or recluse or be a 
dependent and servant under somebody. 

NOTES 

There is a great gulf of difference between the position 
of a man devoting all his energies on the contemplation of 
God and one who is dependent on others. Why both the 
results are ascribed to the same combination is not clear. 

V*. gpm trewr: it 

Su. 37 . — Sanimatradrishte sanyasabhasaha. 

If in the above combination there is only the 
aspect of Sani and there is no other planetary 
aspect, he will put on the appearance of a sanyasi 
but will not be a true or real sanyasi. He will be 
an imposter. 



Jaiminisutras 


61 


\*. m gftgsgS trasta: n 

Su. 38. — Tatra ravisukradrishte rajapreshyah. 

If Ravi and Sukra aspect the Karakamsa the 
person will be employed by royal or political 
personages to do their work. He will be their 
confident. 

V*. ffcfc 3T H 

Su. 39. — Ripphe budhe budhadrishte va mandavat. 

If the tenth from the Karaka Navamsa posses- 
ses the aspect of Budha, he will get similar results 
as have been given by Sani. 

NOTES 

This means that the person will follow some notable 
profession. Ripha means, Ra 2, pha means 2 = 22 divided by 
12, will give us 10, 10th house is indicated by Ripha. 

Vo. || 

Su. 40. — Shubhadrishte stheyaha. 

If in the 10th from Karakamsa, there is bene- 
ficial aspect, the person will be one of great 
determination and never capricious. 

NOTES 

The other benefics are Guru and Sukra. It cannot mean 
anything else. 

vi. rfr ntais: n 

Su. 41. — Ravow gurumatradrishte gopalaha. 



62 


Jaiminisutras 


If the 10th from the Karakamsa, there is Ravi 
possessing only the aspect of Guru and no other 
aspects, the person will have success through the 
sales of cow, bulls and other cattle. 

*3. WtgWuftJIKHHIK : II 

Su. 42. — Dare chandrasukradrigyogatprasadaha. 

If the lord of the 4th from the Karakamsa is 
joined or aspected by Chandra and Sukra, the 
person will be blessed with storeyed houses. 

NOTES 

Da means 8, Ra means 2 = 82, reversed it means 28, 
divided by 12 we get 4 balance. This shows signs of wealth. 
Prasada means houses with compounds. 

v*. 11 

Su. 43. — Ucchagrahe api. 

If the fourth from the Karakamsa is occupied 
by an exalted planet, the person will have many 
fine and splendid houses. 

v*. Tiprftwrt 

Su. 44. — Rahusanibhyam silagriham. 

If the fourth from the Karakamsa is occupied 
by Rahu and Sani, the houses will be constructed 
with rough stones not well plastered. 

Su. 45. — Kujakethubhyamaishtikam. 



Jaiminisutras 


63 


If the 4th from Karakamsa is occupied by Kuja 
and Kethu, the houses will be constructed of 
bricks, lumps of earth. 

u 

Su. 46. — Guruna daravam. 

If the 4th from Karakamsa is occupied by Guru 
wooden houses will be constructed by the native. 

V®. <ftoTT u 

Su. 47. — Tharnam ravina. 

If the 4th is occupied by the Sun, the houses 
will be constructed from thatch and grasses. 

NOTES 

The above three sutras give an idea of the nature of the 
house property possessed by different persons depending 
upon the dispositions of planets with reference to Karakamsa. 

spwbiratffasr: nsrai# ii 

Su. 48. — Same shubhayogaddharmanityaha satya- 
vaidee gurubhaktascha. 

If the 9th from Karakamsa is occupied or 
aspected by benefics, the person will have truth as 
his ideal and motto. He will be righteous in 
conduct, lover of truth and will be faithful and 
dutiful to elders, preceptors and Gurus. 

NOTES 

Sa stands for 7 and Ma denotes 5-75, reversed it is 57, 
divided by 12, we get a remainder of 9. Santa means 9th from 



64 


Jaimioisutm 


Karakamsa. Ninth is the house of piety and represents 
devotion and faith in Gods and Godesses. 

w«wr II 

Su. 49 . — Anyatha papaihi. 

If the 9th from Karakamsa has evil conjunction 
or aspects, he will be quite the reverse in character. 
He will be a liar, uncharitable and sinful, and will 
have no faith and respect for Gurus and elders. 

Su. 50 . — Sanirahubhyam gurudrohaha. 

If Sani and Rahu occupy or aspect the 9th from 
Karakamsa, the person will become ungrateful to 
Gurus and will prove a traitor to them. 

NOTES 

Cheating is a sin. But there are many grades and its 
heinousness depends upon the nature of the parties concerned. 

mi. grtaftora.- n 

Su. 51.— Ravigurubhyam gurovavisvasaha. 

If Guru and Ravi occupy or aspect the 9th from 
Karakamsa, he will not love his parents, elders and 
preceptors. 

H*. TO II 

Su. 52 . — Tatra bhrigwangaraka varge para- 
darikaha. 



Jaiminisutras 


65 


If the 9th from Karakamsa falls in one of the 
shadvargas of Sukra and Kuja, he will be fond of 
others’ wives. 


NOTES 


There are two classes of villians. One set taking sexual 
gratifications with women of immoral tendencies and another 
set always tempting the wives of other persons, and ruining 
their families. Adultery is sinful, but even here there are 
various grades of sins. *Shadvargas are (1) Lagna, (2) Hora, 
(3) Drekkana, (4) Navamsa, (5) Dwadasamsa, and (6) Thrim- 
samsa. Adultery with motherly relations, friends, wives, 
spouses of Gurus and other prohibited relations is more sin- 
ful than adultery with other women. Corrupting family and 
innocent women is a horrible form of sin. 




Su. 53 . — Drigyogabhyamadhikabhyamamaranam. 
If Kuja and Sukra join or aspect the 9th from 
Karakamsa, the person will have the evil habit of 
seducing and keeping illegal gratifications till the 
end of his life. 


NOTES 

The conjunctions and aspects are more powerful than 
♦the Shadvargas. In the latter he will keep up the vicious 
habit for some time, but in the former, this vice will continue 
till the end of life. With some persons, males and females, 

• This has been clearly described in my work A Manual of Hindu 
Astrology . 


5 



66 


Jaminisutras 


these morbid sensations of lust and sexuality will continue 
for some time and then they turn a new chapter in their lives, 
but there are others, who do not give up the vicious habits 
till their death. Some are rascals only for a time but there 
are others who are rascals and cheats throughout their lives. 
Even on death-beds their thoughts run on unholy deeds. 

fcgsn sifoR*: it 

Su. 54 . — Kethuna prcitibandhaha. 

If the 9th from Karakamsa has the conjunction 
or aspect of Kethu, he will be fond of women for 
some time and then give up the bad tendency. 

'Vs. ^"t: II 

Su. 55 .—Guruna strainaha. 

If the 9th from Karakamsa has the conjunction 
or aspect of Guru, he will be excessively fond of 
other women. 

Su. 56 . — Rahunarthanivrittihi. 

If the 9th from Karakamsa is joined or aspected 
by Rahu, the person will lose all his wealth by 
female excesses. 


NOTES 

Even in these vices there are some prudent men finan- 
cially. Some get money by adultery, some enjoy for nothing, 
there are others who lose all their wealth and health by such 
vices, 



Jaiminisutras 


67 


*n$l u 

Su. 57 . — Labhe chandragurubhyam sundaree. 

If Guru and Chandra occupy the 7th from the 
Karakamsa, the wife will be handsome and loving. 

NOTES 

La means 3, Bha denotes 4 — 34, reading backwards we 
have 43, divided by 12., we have 7 remainder. Labha there- 
fore means 7. It will certainly be a great blessing to have 
handsome wife provided she is faithful. But when she is 
fair and unfaithful life becomes miserable. He will have a 
Hell on Earth. 

ufjn ftwu ii 

Su. 58 .--Rahuna vidhava. 

If the 7th from the Karakamsa joins with Rahu 
or has his aspect, the person will have widows for 
connection. 


NOTES 

There are some worthies who are extremely fond of 
widows. They hunt after them. They like them in pre- 
ference to others. 

Su. 59 . — Sanina vayodhika roginee tapaswinee 
va. 

If the 7th from Karakamsa is occupied or 
aspected by Sani, the wife will be older or will be 
sickly or will be a tapaswini or a woman who will 
be engaged in religious meditations. 



68 


Jaiminisutras 


NOTES 

While some persons like younger people there are others 
both males and females who hunt after old people. 
Temperaments are curious. 

It 

Su. 60 . — Kujena vikalangee. 

If Kuja joins or aspects the 7th from Kara- 
kamsa, the wife will be deformed or there will be 
defect in her limbs. 

T&Jif 5 T <n ^ ii 

Su. 61 . — *Ravina swakule gupta cha. 

If Ravi occupies or aspects the 7th from Kara- 
kamsa, the wife will be protected from the members 
of the husband’s family and will have no defects in 
her limbs. 

Su. 62 . — Budhena kalavatee. 

If Budha joins or aspects the 7th from Kara- 
kamsa, the wife will be well versed in music, arts, 
dancing and other fine accomplishments. 

U. ^ ii 

Su. 63 . — Chape chandrenanavrite dese . 

If Chandra occupies the 4th from Karakamsa 
the first sexual union of the wives, mentioned in 


* Another version reads as Ravina kuta gupthacha. 



Jaiminisutras 


69 


the above sutras, will take place in an open place 
uncovered by roof or ceiling. 

NOTES 

Cha means 6, po means 1-61, reversing we have 16 
divided by 12, the balance 4 shows the 4th house from the 
Karakamsa. There are some people who cannot control their 
passions and who have sexual unions in open places. 

II 

Su. 64 . — Karmani pope shooraha. 

If the 3rd from the Karakamsa contains evil 
planets, the person becomes courageous and a 
warrior. 

NOTES 

Ka means 1, Ma means 5 = 15, reading backwards we 
have 51, divided by 12, we have the remainder 3. In general 
astrology, the third house from Lagna shows brothers, sisters 
and courage. 

gft *mi ii 

Su. 65 . — Subhe kataraha. 

If the 3rd from Karakamsa has benefics, the 
person becomes a coward. 

WgRl<WHh: II 

Su. 66 . — Mrityuchintyayoh pape karshakaha. 

If the 3rd and 6th from Karakamsa are occupied 
by malefics, the person lives by ploughing and 
agriculture. 



70 


Jaiminisutras 


NOTES 

Ma 5, ya 1 =51, reversing we have 15. Cha 6, Tha 6 = 66, 
reversing we have 66. Divide them by 12, we get 3 and 6. 
Malefics are considered to give auspicious results in 3, 6 and 

1 1 . Thrishadaya gatahpapaha . 

Su. 67. — Stowe gurow viseshena. 

If Guru occupies the 9th from Karakamsa, he 
will become a great agriculturist. 

3^1 fpl gwsste: II 

Su. 68. — Ucche shubhe shubhalokaha. 

If benefics occupy 12 from Karakamsa, the 
person goes to superior Lokas. 

NOTES 

V 0, Cha 6 06., reversed we get 60, divided by 12, we have 

12. Indian sciences and religions mention many Punya 
Lokas or happy regions in the universe. 

Su. 69. — Ketow kaivalyam. 

If a benefic occupies Karakamsa, the person 
will have Moksha or Final Bliss. 

NOTES 

Ka' means 1, Ta signifies 6 = 16. 16 reversed — 61. 

Divided by 12, we get balance of j. We may also take ucche 
from the previous Sutra and say that if Kethu is found in 
there will be final Bliss. 


♦AnoU 



Jaiminisutras 


71 


«o. fo4xlW<Tlf3$l^ u ( II 

Su. 70. — Kriyochapayorviseshena. 

If Karakamsa is Mesha or Dhanus with benefics 
there, the subject gets Moksha. If Mesha or Dhanus 
happens to be the 12th from Karakamsa and Kethu 
is there, the person .will get Moksha. 

NOTES 

The commentators have put on two different kinds of 
interpretations. I shall explain both of them. The splendid 
power of sutras and their brevity capable of long interpreta- 
tions are only possible in Sanskrit. No other language in 
the world possesses such facilities for brevity and at the same 
lime containing a world of meaning. If Mesha or Dhanus 
becomes Karakamsa with a benefic there, there will be the 
highest Bliss. If Mesha or Dhanus becomes the 12th from 
Karakamsa and Kethu is there, there will be the highest Bliss 
or Moksha. Kethu is not a full benefic. Kethu becomes a 
benefic in Chara Dasa and not otherwise. Therefore he can- 
not be classified as a subhagraha. But astrology ascribes to 
him the highest spiritual power of emancipation from all 
births and re-births and gives man Moksha. 

. qifow 1 1 

Su. 71. — Papairanyatha. 

If the 12th from the Karakamsa is occupied by 
evil planets, he will go to hell and will have no 
Bliss. 



72 


Jaiminisutras 


NOTES 

Heaven and Hell are not seen. But there is the universal 
belief in their existence and all religions lend support to 
this faith. 

Su. 72. — Ravikethubhyam shive bhaktihi. 

If Ravi and Kethu are in Karakamsa, the 
person will become a Saivite or one who worships 
Shiva. 


NOTES 

Worship of God is as different as there are differences 
in temperaments. Matha is a peculiarity of Mathi or mind. 

|| 

Su. 73. — Chandrena gauryam. 

If Chandra joins Karakamsa, the person will 
worship Gouri, wife of Shiva. 

®». gfcoi srtFtm ii 

Su. 74. — Sukrena lakshmyam. 

If Sukra joins Karakamsa, he will worship 
Lakshmi, spouse of Vishnu. 

II 

Su. 75. — Kujena skande. 

If Kuja occupies Karakamsa, he becomes a 
worshipper of Skanda or Shanmukha the warrior 
son of Shiva. 



Jaiminisutras 


73 


»*. s> roft* q t fowfr ii 

Su. 76 . — Budhasan ibhyam vishnow. 

If Budha and Sani join Karakamsa, he will 
worship Vishnu. 


NOTES 

Different temperaments have different tastes and their 
selection of Gods follows their temperaments. As all rivers 
fall into the ocean, so also all forms of worship reach the 
Almighty. 

»». II 

Su. 77 . — Guruna sambasive. 

If Karakamsa is joined by Guru, he will worship 
Sambasiva or Parvati and Paramesvara. 

»«. tt|®it swretf? * II 

Su. 78 . — Rahuna thamasyam durgayam cha. 

If Rahu joins Karakamsa, the person will 
worship evil spirits and Durga. 

NOTES 

There are about 56 varieties of evil spirits mentioned in 
the Mantrasastras. There are two principal divisions among 
the Mantras. Kshudra Mantras devoted to the invocation of 
evil spirits and actions performed by them and Maha Mantras 
or incantations to Divine and angelic spirits and work that 
can be done by them. I shall mention a few names of evil 
spirits : Bhuta, Preta, Pisacha, Sakini, Dhakini, Mohini, 
Jalini, Malini, Bhetala, etc. 



74 


Jaiminisutras 


The Maha Mantras invoke Gayatri, Savitri, Saraswati, 
Brahma, Vishnu, Maheswara, Lakshmi, Lalita, Durga, 
Ganapati, Skanda, Surya, etc. 

^ ii 

Su. 79 . — Kethuna ganese skande cha. 

If Kethu joins Karakamsa, the person becomes 
a devotee of Ganesa and Kumaraswami. 

c». <nq$ n 

Su. 80 . — Paparkshe mande kshudradevatasu. 

If Sani occupies the Karakamsa falling in an 
evil sign, the person becomes a great devotee of evil 
spirits. 

NOTES 

There are Devil and Spirit worshippers of various 
grades. The existence of spirit-world has been proved by the 
best intellects and by personal experience. A handful of 
experience is worth ten cart loads of theories. 

ci. gfc =* it 

Su. 81 . — Sukre cha. 

If Sukra occupies the evil Karakamsa, the 
person will worship devils, spirits, etc. 

NOTES 

There are 56 varieties of Devils or Pisachas headed by 
the powerful Bhetala. See my notes in Sarwartha Chintamani. 

II 

Su. 82 . — Amatyadasay chaivam. 



Jaiminisutras 


75 


If the 6th from Amatyakaraka joins evil Kara- 
kamsa, the person devotes himself to the worship 
of evil spirits. 


NOTES 

The planet who gets the highest number of degrees 
becomes the Atmakaraka. The planet who gets the next 
highest number of degrees becomes the Amatyakaraka. If the 
6th planet from Amatyakaraka counting from Ravi in the 
regular order occupies the evil Karakamsa, the person will 
be devoted to evil spirits. Always the order of the planets 
are as follows Ravi, Chandra, Kuja, Budha, Guru, Sukra 
and Sani, the order of the week-days. Somebody must 
become Amatyakaraka, suppose Sam becomes so. The 6th 
from Ravi is Sukra and if Sukra joins the evil Karakamsa, 
the person devotes his time to evil spirits. These Mantras 
are called Kshudra or Sahara and count as 9 crores, a 
bewildering number. 

c\. «n«n3$ wifNw: u 

Su. 83 . — Trikone popadwaye mantrikaha. 

If the 5th and 9th from the Karakamsa are 
occupied by evil planets, the person becomes a 
Mantrika or a magician and will be able to exercise 
devils and evil spirits. 

it 

Su. 84 .— Papadrishte nigrahakaha. 

If the evil planets in the 5th and 9th from Kara- 
kamsa have evil conjunctions or aspects, the person 



76 


Jaiminisutras 


becomes a great Mantraic and will be able to root 
out all evil spirits - 

3pro£s<fui5'i>: ii 

Su. 85 . — Shubhadrishtenugrahakaha . 

If the evil planets in the 5th and from Kara- 
kamsa have benelicial aspects or conjunction, the 
person will help the people and do them good. 

ii 

Su. 86 . — Sukrendou sukradrishte rasavadee. 

If Sukra aspects Karakamsa and the Moon, the 
person becomes an alchemist. 

«». &&& II 

Su. 87 . — Budhadrishtc bhishak. 

If Karakamsa and Chandra have the aspect of 
Budha, the person becomes a medical man. 

NOTES 

His eminence and capacity will depend upon the strength 
of Budha. 

C<5. II 

Su. 88.— Chape chandre sukradrishte pandus- 
swithee. 

If Moon is in the 4th from Karakamsa and has 
the aspect of Sukra, the person will suffer from 
white leprosy. 



Jaiminisutras 


77 


NOTES 

• Cha 6, Pa 1=61 reversed 16, divided by 12, will give a 
balance of 4. Hence Chape means 4th house from the 
Karakamsa. 

6 %. II 

Su. 89 . — Kujadrishte maharogaha. 

If Kuja aspects Chandra in the 4th house from 
the Karakamsa, the man will have serious form of 
leprosy. 


\ o . ii 

Su. 90 . — Kethudrishte neelakushtam. 

If Chandra in the 4th from the Karakamsa is 
aspected by Kethu, the person will have black 
leprosy. 

NOTES 

There arc many hideous and repulsive forms of this 
loathsome disease. 

m i&tr *t fsmfwn sert: \\ 

Su. 91 . — Tatra mritow va kujarahubhyam 
kshayaha. 

If the 4th or 5th from Karakamsa is joined by 
Kuja and Rahu, the person will suffer from con- 
sumption or pthysis. 

NOTES 

He will have a mild attack of disease. 



78 


Jaiminisutras 


©raa^f n 

Su. 92 . — Chandradrishte nischayena. 

If such Kuja and Rahu, started in the above 
sutra, have the inner aspect, certainly the person 
will have serious form of consumption. 

II 

Su. 93. -Kujena pitakadihi. 

If the 4th or 5th from the Karakamsa is occu- 
pied by Kuja, the person will suffer from excessive 
sweating, cuts, itches or boils and sores in the 
body. 

v*. 5Tc*rhrt «n ii 

Su. 94 . — Kethunu graham jalarogo xa. 

If Kethu joins the 4th or 5th from Karakamsa, 
the man will suffer from Grahani or a kind of glan- 
dular disease and from watery diseases like dropsy, 
diabetes, loose motions, etc. 

v*. n 

Su. 95 .— Rahugulikahhyam kshudravishani. 

If the 4th or 5th from the Karakamsa is joined 
by Rahu and Gulika, there will be suffering from 
the poisonous effects of rats, cats, etc. 

to ii 

Su. 96 . — Tatra sanow dhanushkaha. 



Jaiminisutras 


79 


If the 4th from the Karakamsa is joined by 
Sani, the person becomes an expert in inflicting 
wounds. This means he will be skilled in the use of 
deadly arms. 

<t®. fcfpn qft wraft ii 

Su. 97 . — Kethuna ghatikayanthree. 

If Kethu joins the 4th from Karakamsa, the 
person becomes skilful in preparing clocks, watches 
and other time indicating machines. 

NOTES 

I have shown in the Introduction and also in the prefatory 
remarks that Jaimini flourished 5,000 years ago. He was a 
contemporary of Vedavyasa and was his worthy disciple. 
Ghatika yantras or machines showing time were in existence 
as this Sutra proves and confirms. SuryasidJanta mentions 
many Yantras. 

sir II 

Su. 98 . — Budhena paramahamso lagudee va. 

If the 4th from the Karakamsa is combined by 
Budha, the person becomes a paramahamsa or a 
great yogi, or one who bears *Palasa Danda , etc., 
showing Brahmacharya or Sanyasayoga of particular 
kind. 

W. llgoil II 

Su. 99 . — Rahuna lohayantree. 


♦Palasa means Butea f rondo sa . 



80 


Jaimiofeutras 


If the 4th from the Karakamsa is occupied by 
Rahu, he will become proficient in preparing 
machinery out of metals or a clever mechanic. 

100. || 

Su. 100. — Ravina khadgee. 

If Ravi joins the 4th from Karakamsa, the 
person lives by his sword. 

NOTES 

Many kinds of swords are mentioned in the ancient works. 
Swords are terrible weapons then as well as now at close 
quarters. 

101. jifif || 

Su. 101. — Kujena Kunthee. 

If Kuja joins the 4th from Karakamsa, he will 
live by the profession of using Kuntayudha , maces 
and long sticks. 

i • * . ii 

Su. 102. — Matapitroschandragurubhyam grantha- 
krit. 

If Chandra and Guru are in the Karakamsa or 
in the 5th from it, the person will become an author 
and will live by writing books. 

NOTES 

Ma 5, Ta 6-56, reversing we get 65, divided by 12, there 
is a balance of 5. Pa 1, Ta 6- 16, inverse order 61 divided 



Jaiminisutras 


81 


by 12, we have 1. Fifth is the house of intelligence in 
astrology as also of children. 

Su. 103 . — Sukrena kinchidoonam. 

If Chandra and Sukra join Karakamsa or the 
5th house from it, the person becomes an ordinary 
author. 

i»v. ?ratsft II 

Su. 104 . — Budhena tato api. 

The person becomes still less famous than in 
the above Sutra if Budha joins Chandra instead of 
Sukra in Karakamsa or the 5th from it. 

S o'A. smsqstRff II 

Su. 105 . — Sukrena kavirwagmee kaxyagnascha. 

If Sukra joins Karakamsa or the 5th from it, 
the person becomes a great poet, an eloquent 
speaker and well versed in poetry and literature. 

Su. 106 . — Guruna sarvavid granthikascha. 

If Guru joins the Karakamsa or the 5th from 
it, he will be an all-round man and will know many 
branches of knowledge, well read in sciences and 
author of various works. He becomes a versatile 
genius. 

SI fptft II 

Su. 107 . — Na vagmee. 

6 



82 


Jaiminisutras, 


In the above combination of Guru, though a 
person becomes learned he will not become a good 
speaker nor possess powers of eloquence. 

NOTES 

Some have the gift of the gab while many have it not. 

w. it 

Su . 108 . — Visishyavaiyyakarano vedavedantha- 

vichha. 

If Guru joins Karakamsa or the 5th from it, the 
person becomes learned in Vyakarana or Grammar, 
Vedic literature and Vedangas. 

NOTES 

The last are named as Siksha, Vyakarana, Chandas, 
Nirukta, Jyotisha and Kalpa. Without a proficiency in these 
six Angas or limbs, no scholar can interpret the Vedas 
properly. 

Vedas simply mean repositories of knowledge useful for 
all ages, claims and nations. Whatever might have been the 
origin of these intellectual mines, there are no books extant 
in the world, which can compare with these deep mines of 
thought, knowledge and highest conceptions of human intel- 
lectual flights. The commentaries of Bhatta Bhaskara and 
Vidyaranya are the two eyes for the Vedas through which we 
can approach the Vedas and see them to some extent. The 
first and earliest commentators is Bhatta Bhaskara and he 
must have flourished in the remote ages. Vidyaranya’s age is 
fixed clearly by the inscription (see my History of Vijayanagar) 



Jaiminisutras 


83 


as 1238 Salivahana Saka or 1336 A.D. This illustrious intellec- 
tual giant not only founded the Empire of Vijayanagar, but 
was also the pontifical Head of the Sringeri Mutt of Adi 
Sankaracharya. He obtained Samadhi in 1386 after having 
seen Harihara I, Bukka 1 and Harihara II, ruling the Empire 
founded by him in great prosperity, peace and progress. 

Practically there seems to be no difference in the combina- 
tions given in Sutras 106 and 108. If in this combination 
Guru is exalted or himself has beneficial aspects or Shadvar- 
gas, the knowledge in the man may be more profound, and 
the intellect more comprehensive and piercing. The strength 
of the planet, of the Rasi, the power of the Atmakaraka and 
combinations and aspects determine the extent of the 
proficiency. 

5rai3t* ; ST^TI || 

Su. 109 .—Sabhajadaha sanina. 

If Sani joins Karakamsa or the 5th from it, the 
person becomes nervous in an assembly. 

NOTES 

He may be a learned man, but will feel shy and nervous 
and thus cut an awkward figure, in a General Assembly or 
public discussion. 

Su. 1 10 . — Budhena meemamsakaha. 

If Budha joins 1st or 5th of Karakamsa, he will 
shine as a Meemamsaka. 



84 


Jaimioisutras 


NOTES 

There are two principal divisions here. Poorvameemamsa 
by Jaimini himself, explaining rituals of Karma and their 
effects and Uttarameemamsa or Bfahmasutras by Vasya 
relating to Brahmagnana. 

m. ii 

Su. 1 11. — Kujena nayyayikaha. 

If Kuja joins 1st or 5th of Karakamsa, the 
person will become a great logician. 

Su. 112. — Chandrena sankhyayogagnaha sahi- 
tyagno gayakascha. 

If Chandra joins 1st or 5th of Karakamsa, the 
person becomes clever in sankhyasastra, learned in 
language, poetry, drama and attendant subjects, 
will have great proficiency in music and other 
accompli shm ents . 


NOTES 

Sankhya is a portion of Sanskrit Science, which deals 
with numbers and their interpretations. Sankhya also means 
a system of Philosophy. 

m. rfo”! ii 

Su. 113 . — Ravina vedanta geetagnascha. 

If Ravi combines in 1st or 5th of Karakamsa, 
the person will become a great Vedantistand 
musician. 



Jaiminisutras 


85 


m. %s*n ntfRRj: ii 

Su. 114. — Kethima ganithagnaha. 

If Kethu combines in above houses, the person 
becomes well versed in mathematics. 

Su. 11 5. — Gurusambandhena sampradayasiddhih . 

If in the above combinations of planets. Guru 
joins or aspects, knowledge in the different branches 
will be well founded and regularly trained as per 
principles of those sciences. 

m. 

Su. 116. — Bhagye chaivam. 

The results ascribed for planetary positions in 
the 1st and 5th from Karakamsa will also hold good 
for similar positions in the 2nd from Karakamsa. 
sru n 

Su. 117. — Sada chaivamityeke. 

Bha stands for 4 and Ya denotes 1 = 41, reversed we get 
14, divided by 12, the remainder is 2. 

Sada=Sa stands for 7, Da stands foi 8 = 78, in the inverse 
order we have 87, divided by 12, the balance is 3. By this the 
author means, all those results from the positions of the • 
planets in the 1st and the Karakamsa must or maybe predic- 
ted by the combination of the above planets in the 2nd and 
3rd houses from the Karakamsa. 

««. ssuwi* it 

Su. 118 . — Bhagye kethow papadrishte stabdhavak . 



86 


Jaiminisutras 


Kethu in the 2nd from Karakamsa, aspected by 
evil planets, will make the person indistinct or a 
slow speaker. 


NOTES 

Second house denotes speech, eloquence, eyes, face and 
riches. 

Su. 119 . — Swapitrupadadbhagyarogayoho papa- 
samye kemadrumaha. 

If evil planets are found in the 2nd and 8th 
houses from Janma Lagna or the Arudha Lagna, 
the person will suffer from Kemadruma Yoga or 
combination for great poverty. 

The same results apply to .the positions of 
planets in the 3rd from Karakamsa. 

NOTES 

Bha 4, Yu 1-41, reversed 14, divided by 12, we get 2. 
Ra 2 and Ga 3 23, reading backwards we get 32, divided by 
12, we have 8 balance ; therefore, Bhagya and Roga denote 
2 and 8, respectively. 

Compare Kemadruma as explained by Varahamihira and 
others (See my translation of Brihat Jataka— Nabhasa Yogas). 
When there are no planets on either side of Chandra the 
combination is called Kemadruma by him. 

It 

Su. 120 . — Chandradrishtow viseshena. 



Jaiminisutras 


87 


If Chandra aspects the evil planets in the above 
combination, the person suffers from abject poverty. 
The majority consider poverty as a great curse, 
sqt. <n% i> 

Su. 121 . — Sarvesham chaiva pake. 

The results, mentioned in all the combinations 
above named, will be experienced during all the 
Dasas of Rasis or in their Antardasas or periods 
and sub-periods of the zodiacal signs. 

End of Second Pada of the First Adhyaya. 

tffawnw: n ii u 


ADHYAYA 1-PADA 3 

1 . «W q u 
Su. 1 . — Atha padam. 

Results based on Pada Lagna will be described 
in this chapter. 

NOTES 

In Sutra 29 of the First Pada Jaimini has clearly illustrated 
the meaning of Pada or Arudha Lagna. In this chapter he 
will give the results of planets occupying from Pada Lagna. 
In the previous chapter he gave the results of planets in 



88 


Jaiminisutras 


Swarasa and Karakamsa. Remember Karaka always has 
been used for Atmakaraka. 

Su. 2. — Vyaye sagrahe grahadrishteva sreeman- 
taha. 

If the 11th house from Pada Lagna is occupied 
or aspected by planets, the person becomes a sree- 
manta or a wealthy man. 



Chandra 

Rahu 

Lagna 

D 

Ravi 

Budha 

Guru 

BARI 

Pada 

Lagna 





Sukra 


Kuja 

Kethu 



Take an example. Here the lord of Lagna is Sukra and 
he is placed in the 8th house from Lagna. The eighth from 
Sukra becomes Pada or Arudha Lagna and this falls in 
Kataka the 8th from Sukra. The 11th fiom Kataka is 
Vrishabha and this is aspected by Kuja and Kethu and 
therefore the person will be in affluent circumstances. The 
term Sreemanta applies to one who has not seen poverty 
from birth to death. 

Su. 3 . —Shubhaimyayallabhaha. 






Jaiminisutras 


89 


When the 1 1 th from Pada is aspected or joined 
by benefics the wealth will come from proper 
channels. The gains will be from fair and lawful 
means. 

». qtfarofm n 

Su. 4. — Papairamargena. 

If the aspecting or joining planets in the above 
are evil, the wealth will come through sinful and 
illegal means. 


NOTES 

Unfortunately we have seven evil and only two good 
planets. 

Su. 5. — Ucchadibhirviseshath. 

If the 11th from Arudha Lagna is well combined 
and aspected by benefics or those in exaltation, 
moolathrikona, etc., the person will acquire plenty 
of wealth through justifiable means. 

NOTES 

Here Uccha has two significations. U 0, Cha 6=06 
reading reversely we get 60, divided by 12, the balance will 
be 12. Uccha also means, the planets in exaltations, etc. 
When the planets aspecting the 11th or joining it are exalted, 
in good Vargas, in Moolathrikona, or in their own houses 
and are benefics in nature, the wealth will come in plenty 
and will always be legally and rightly acquired but when such 



90 


Jaiminisutrai 


planets are malefics, the person will get riches on a large 
scale, but through unfair and illegal manner. In both cases 
he will be rich but in the case of beneiics he will be a good 
man and will earn money honestly and by labour. In the 
case of evil planets, the wealth will be thoroughly ill-gotten 
and criminal. These Yogas will occur when the 12th 
house is not aspected by any planet. 

Su. 6 .—Neeche grahadrigyogadwayadhikyam. 

If there are planets in the 12th house from 
Lagna, or Pada Lagna, the person will spend more 
than he earns. 


NOTES 

Na 0, Cha means 6 = 06 reversing we get 60, divided by 
12, the balance is 12, and the 12th house is indicated. If 
evil planets occupy the 12th, the expenditure will be on 
immoral and sinful deeds. If there are benefics in the 12th, 
the expenditure will be on charitable and religious purposes 
such as building temples or places of worship, tanks, wells, 
charitable institutions and helping the poor and the distressed. 
But When the planets are bad the expenditure will be on 
drinking, whoring, gambling, unjust litigation and other 
sinful actions. 

®. tftaggfrfom II 

'6u. 7. — Ravirahusukrairnrupath. 

If Ravi, Rahu and Sukra occupy or aspect the 
12th from Lagna or Pada Lagna, the person will 



Jaiminisutras 


91 


lose money through kingly displeasure or fines 
and confiscations. 

Su. 8 . — Chandradrishtau nischayena. 

If in the combination in Sutra 7 there is the 
aspect of Chandra, the losses will certainly occur 
through governing bodies. 

fstar<5T$T ii 

Su. 9 . — Budhena gnathitho vivadadwa. 

If Budha occupies the 12th house from Pada or 
Lagna or aspects it, there will be losses from 
cousins, relations and litigations. 

i«. ii 

Su. 10 . — Guruna karamoolath. 

If Guru joins or aspects 12th from Pada Lagna 
or Lagna, the man loses money by paying heavy 
government taxes. 

n. fsrcrftwn wjgisu* ii 

Su. 1 1 . — Kujasanibhyam bhratrumukhat. 

If the 12th from Lagna or Pada Lagna is joined 
or aspected by Kuja and Sani, the person will suffer 
losses through brothers. 

IV 8Wi II 

SU. 12 . — Aetairvyaya aevam labhaha. 



92 


Jaimioisutras 


The results have been given for the 12th house 
from Lagna or Pada Lagna and the various sources 
of losses have been indicated. If those planets are in 
the 11th house, then instead of losing money he will 
gain money through those sources which have been 
shown to the credit of planets. If the planets are in 
the 12th house, he will lose money ; if they are in 
the 11th house, he will gain. 

n. H 

Su . 13 . — Labhe rahukethubhyamuclararogaha . 

If the 7th house from Pada has conjunction or 
aspect of Rahu or Kethu, the person suffers from 
stomach diseases. 

Su. 14. — Tatra kethuna jhatithi jyanilingani. 

If Kethu occupies the 2nd house from Pada 
Lagna, the person will display signs of old age, 
though he may be young in years. He will show 
wrinkles beyond his proper age. If in the 6th house 
from Pada Lagna evil planets combine, he will 
become a thief. If the 2nd and 6th from Pada Lagna 
are occupied by benefics without evil aspects, the 
person will be a governor of many countries. 

ih. tftowrs n 

Su. 15. —Chandragurusukreshu sreemantaha. 



Jaiminisutras 


93 


If Chandra, Guru or Sukra occupy the 2nd 
from Pada Lagna, he will become a rich man. 
Here all these planets may be in the second or any 
one of them. 

1$. srwbr ii 

Su. 16 —Uchhena va. 

If the evil or good planets are in the second 
house from Pada in exaltation, the person becomes 
rich. 

NOTES 

He has already shown if the exalted planet is a benefic, 
the person acquires wealth by lawful means but if an evil 
planet is in the second exalted, the person becomes rich 
through unlawful and sinful ways. 

i®. ii 

Su. 17. — Svamsavadanyatprayena. 

All the results explained in the above sutras 
will have application and reference as they have 
had in the Karakamsa. 

51 steps: II 

Su. 18 . — Labhapade kendre thrikone va sree- 
mantaha. 

If the Arudha Lagna falls in the 7th from Janma 
Lagna or Karakamsa or in the Kendras or Konas 
the person becomes extremely rich. 

*«t «apn ii 

Su. 19 . — Anyatha dusthe. 



94 


Jaiminisutras 


If the Arudha Lagna does not fall in Kendra or 
Thrikona from Lagna but falls in Dusthas 6, 8 and 
12, the results will be bad. 

NOTES 

That is instead of becoming a Sreemantha the person 
becomes a poor man. They are called Dusthas or Dusthanas 
or bad places. 

ro. n 

Su. 20 . — Kendrathrikonopachayeshu dwayor- 

maitree. 

If the Saptamarudha falls in Kendras, Thrikonas 
or the Upachayas from Janma Lagna, excepting 
the 6th which is classified as a Dusthana, there will 
be great agreement between the wife and the 
husband. 


NOTES 

The couple will lead an agreeable life. A good wife is 
Heaven on Earth. A bad one is Hell on Earth. 

*1. It* » 

Su. 21 . — Ripurogachintasu vairam. 

If the Arudha Bhavas fall in 6, 8 and 12 from 
Lagna, they denote evils to such Bhavas. 

NOTES 

Ra 2, Pa 1 -21 ^ 12 Ra 2, Ga 3 - 23 = 32, divided by 12 
we get 8. Cha 6, ta 6- 65, divided by 12 we get 6 balance. 



Jaiminisutras 


95 


Su. 22 . — Patneelabhayordishtya nirabhasarga- 
laya. 

If the Arudha Lagna and the 7th from it have 
no obstructive Argalas, the person becomes 
fortunate. 

NOTES 

Pa 1, mi 0=10, reversed it is 01, or it denotes the first 
house. La 3, Bha 4-34 reversed we get 43, divided by 12, 
we get a balance of 7. For subha and papa Argalas see my 
notes on Sutras 5 to 9 in Pada 1 of Adhyaya 1. 

Su. 23 . — Shubhargale dhanasamriddhihi. 

If Arudha Lagna and the 7th from it have 
beneficial Argalas, there will be plenty of money. 

NOTES 

If the Argala happens to be malicious, there will be 
ordinary wealth. If there is a mixture of subha and papa 
Argalas, the person will have financial ups and downs or he 
will be tossed from wealth to poverty and from poverty to 
wealth. 

Su. 24 . — Janmakalaghatikaswekadrishtasu raja - 
naha. 

If a planet aspects Hora Lagna, Ghatika Lagna 
and Janma Lagna, the person becomes a ruler or 
one equal to him. 



96 


Jaiminisutras 


NOTES 

For an explanation of these various Lagnas see Sutra 
32oflstPada. What is meant here is that if one planet 
aspects all these three different Lagnas at the same time, the 
person attains to eminent position; if not he will become a 
King. In some places Ministers are more powerful than 
Kings. 

qsftsnmite Tn iiwrowM ii 

Su. 25 . — Patneelabhayoscha rasyamsakadrika- 
nairva. 

If Chandra Lagna, Navamsa Lagna, Drekkana 
Lagna and the 7th houses from these three are 
aspected by one planet, the person becomes a great 
ruler or a Maharaja. 


NOTES 

Some old commentators observe thus : If one has con- 

nection, conjunction or aspect, with Lagna, the 7th from it, 
Chandra Lagna, Navamsa Lagna and Drekkana Lagna, the 
person becomes a Maharaja or a great powerful ruler. 

Su. 26 . — Thesfovekasminnyune nyunam. 

If out of the 6 Lagnas, viz., Lagna, Ghatika 
Lagna, Hora Lagna, Chandra Lagna, Navamsa 
Lagna and Drekkana Lagna — one planet sees five 
and not all the six, the person will have ordinary 
Rajayoga. 



Jaiminisutras 


97 


NOTES 

This combination occurs only in real Rajayogas or royal 
combinations. If an exalted planet occupies the Arudha 
Lagna or Chandra, Guru and Sukra are there and evil 
obstructive Argalas are not there, while, where there are 
beneficial Argalas, the person will attain to royal position. 

s®. u 

Su. 27. — Evamamsato drikanatascha. 

If the Navamsa, Hora and Ghatika Lagnas or 
Drekkana, Hora and Ghatika Lagnas are aspected 
by one planet, there will be Rajayoga. 

NOTES 

Some commentators are of opinion that 2\ ghatis exactly 
in the middle of the Day and the Night are auspicious and 
such times produce Kings and their equals. The mid-day 
goes under the name of Abhijit and is considered as very 
auspicious for all work. It cuts away all evils. Abhijit sarva 
doshaghnam. 

Su. 28. — Sukrachandrayormitho drishtayoh 

simhasthayorva yanavantaha. 

If Sukra and Chandra aspect each other or if 
they are in the 3rd house from each other, the person 
will be blessed with various conveyances. 

NOTES 

Simha means 3, Sa denotes 7, Ha shows 8=78, reversed 
87, divided by 12, gives 3 as remainder. 



98 


Jaiminisutras 


Su. 29. — Sukrakujakethushu vaithanikaha . 

If Sukra, Kuja and Kethu have mutual aspects 
or if they are in the 3rd house from each other, 
the person will have aristocratic surroundings 
from his ancestors. 


NOTES 

He will belong to an old and respectable family which 
has royal traditions and marks of honour. Some commenta- 
tors say that the person will be proficient in all the details of 
of religious sacrifices. 

3.0, nsrrc: ii 

Su . 30 . — Swabhagyadaramatrubhavasameshu 
subheshu rajanaha. 

If the 2nd, 4th and 5th Bhavas become equal 
to the Karaka or if benefics occupy them, the 
person becomes a Raja or his equal in position. 

NOTES 

We have de facto and d>> jute rulers. We have Karakas 
for all events. The Bhavas and planets have to be taken 
with reference to the various Karakas or lords of events. 
Some commentators interpret Bhava in the above Sutra as 
Bha 4 and Va 4 -44, divided, by 12 will give us the remainder 
as 8. They say that if the 2nd and 4th houses frdm the 
Karaka are equal or if benefics occupy them or if the Sth and 
8th houses are equal or have beneficial planets in them, there 
will be Rajayoga. 



Jaiminisutras 


99 


vfomu qmta n 

Su. 31 . — Karmadasayoh papayoscha. 

If the 3rd and 6th houses from Atmakaraka 
are equal or if they are joined by malefics, there 
will be Rajayogas. 

NOTES 

Ka\ s Ma5 15, reversed 51 , divided by 12, the balance 
is 3. Da 8, 5^7-87, reversed 78, divided by 12, we have a 
balance of 6. When he says equal he means that the sources 
of strength and weakness must balance equally. 

Su. 32. — Pitrulabhadhipaschaivam. 

If from the lords of Lagna or 7th benefics 
occupy the 2nd, 4th, 5th and 8th, there will be 
Rajayogas. 

NOTES 

Jaimini confuses his readers, unless they happen to be 
very intelligent, by referring to Lagna, Pada Lagna, Ghatika, 
Hora Lagna, Atmakarakamsa and other amsas and unless we 
have able commentaries, the readers will be launched in a 
rough sea of doubts. Pitu, Pa 1, Ta 6- 16, reversing we get 
61, and divided by 12, we have the first house or Lagna. 
Labha 7, La 3, Bha4-34, reversed, we have 43, divided by 
12, we have a balance of 7: therefore the 7th house from 
Lagna is indicated. 

U> && wn: H 

Su. 33. — Misre samaha . 



100 


Jaiminisutras 


If there is a mixture of benefics and malefics 
in the above combination, the person will attain 
to ordinary positions. 

V». it 

Su. 34. — Daridro vipareethe. 

If evil planets occupy beneficial signs and 
benefics evil signs, the person will be poor. 

V*. ^ ?n rraifihn: n 

Su. 35. — M atari gurow sukre chandre va 
rajakeeyaha. 

If to the lord of Lagna or to the lord of 7th, 
the 5th house is occupied by Guru, Sukra or 
Chandra, the person becomes a high Government 
official and wields political powers. 

W. sit «n$ ii 

Su. 36. — Karmani dase va pape senanyaha. 

If evil planets occupy the 3rd and 6th from the 
lords of Lagna or the lord of the 7th, the person 
becomes a military commander. 

NOTES 

Karmani 3, Dasa 6. Ka 1, Ma 5 = 15, reversed we have 51, 
divided by 12 we have the remainder 3. Dal, Sa is 7 = 87, 
reading backward we have 78, divided by 12 we get the 
balance 6. 

Commanders often lead their victorious armies against 
their employers and become rulers themselves. Hyder, 



Jaiminisutras 


101 


Napoleon, Shivaji, Hindenberg, Wellington and others 
became rulers. 

safari aa fawwwsan wn^twrom 

n 

Su. 37 . — Swapitrubhyam karmadasasthadri- 
shtya tadeesadrishtya mcitrunathadrishtya cha dhee- 
mantaha. 

If the lords of the 3rd and 6th from Lagna and 
Atmakaraka aspect the latter or if the planets in 
those houses aspect them, and if the lord of the 5th 
aspect them, the person becomes extremely intelli- 
gent. 

NOTES 

Pitru 1, Swa 1, Karma 3, Dasa 5, Matru 6. These have 
already been explained in Ka, Ta, Pa, Yadi Sutra rules. 

II 

Su. 38 . — Daresadrishtya sukhinaha. 

If Lagna and Karaka Lagna have the aspect 
of the lord of the 4th, the person will be happy. 

NOTES 

Dara 4. Happiness, it must be remembered, does not 
entirely depend upon position or wealth. There are some 
people who are extremely rich and powerful, but they are t 
most miserable. There are some who are very ordinary but 
who are perfectly happy. Physical and mental conditions 
have great deal to do with happiness and specially some 
temperaments have the knack of making themselves agreeable 
abound and create happiness for themselves. 



102 


Jaiminisutras 


V*. ytftarewr n 

Su. 39. — Rogesadrishtya daridraha. 

If the lord of the 8th from Lagna and Karaka 
Lagna aspect them, the person suffers from 
poverty. 

NOTES 

Roga 8, Ra 2, Ga 3--- 23, reversed 32, divided by 12 we 
have balance 8. 

s®. : ii 

Su. 40. — Ripunathadrishtya vyayaseelaha. 

If the lord of the I2th from Lagna and Karaka 
Lagna aspect them, then the person becomes a 
spendthrift or extravagant. 

81. *3l|iteV*n SNNM: II 

Su. 41. — Swamidrishtya prabalaha. 

If the lord of Lagna aspects the Lagna and if 
the lord of the Karaka Lagna aspects that Lagna, 
the person will have very good Rajayogas. 

Su. 42. - Pacshadripubhagyayorgrahasamye 
bandhah konayo ripujayayoho keetayugmayordara- 
riphayoscha. 

If from Lagna— the 2nd and 12th or 5th or 9th 
or 12th and 6th or 4th and 10th have the same 



Jaiminisutras 


103 


number of planets posited, the person will be 
imprisoned. 

NOTES 

This seems to be the longest Sutra 1 have had to deal 
since the commencement of this work and it requires a clear 
explanation. 

If any of these have Grahasamya 
Ripu — 12 then the person will have chains’ beating, 
imprisonment and the displeasure of the 
Bhagya— governing authorities. If there is one 
planet in the 2nd, there must be one 
Konayoho 5 and 9 planet in the 12th. If there arc 2 planets 
in the 2nd the twelfth also must have 
Ripu — 12 2 planets. If there are 3 planets in the 
5th, there must also be 3 in the 9th. 
Jaya— 6 This is Grahasamya or equality in 
the number of planets. If there are evil 
Dara — 4 combinations or aspects for these houses 
or for their lords, the punishments are 
Ripha— 10 certain and the man will suffer. If there 
are good planetary combinations or 
Kita — 11 aspects for these houses or their lords, 
the person will have trials and troubles 
Yugma — 3 and prosecutions, but will be let off after 
trials and persecutions. Here five sets 
of houses have been named and the presence of planets, in 
each set, of equal number in each of the houses indicate 
imprisonments and tortures. But I gather from the com- 
mentaries that when the number of planets is not equal or 
properly matched, these troubles may not be indicated. 



104 


Jaiminisutras 


«*. jxg : ii 

Su. 43.- Sukradguunapadastho rahtih surya - 
drishto netraha. 

If the 5th from Arudha Lagna is occupied by 
Rahu and Ravi aspects him, the person will lose his 
sight. 

NOTES 

Sukra 1, Sa means 5, Ra denotes 2- 52, reversed 25, 
divided by 12, we have 1, denoting Lagna. Gauna 5, Ga 
shows 3, Na denotes 5 — 35, reversed 53, divided by 12, we 
have the balance of 5, denoting the 5th house. Each Lagna 
has its Arudha. Take the 5th in the undergiven horoscope. 


Lagna 

Rahu 

Sani 

Chandra 
Bud ha 

Ravi 

Sukra 


RASI 

Kuja 




Guru 


Kethu 


Here the 5th is Kataka. Its lord is in the 11th from the 5th. 
The 1 1th from Chandra falls in Meena and if I understand the 
sutra properly, it means the fifth Arudha falls in Meena, is 
occupied by Rahu and Ravi aspects him, the person will lose 
his sight. 












Jaiminisutras 


10 $ 


Su. 44. — Swadaragayoh sukrachandrayorato- 

dyam rajachinhani cha. 

If Sukra and Chandra occupy the 4th from 
Atmakaraka, the person will have the parapharnalia 
of royalty, viz., Nagara or drums, Noubhat, music, 
Chatras umbrellas, Chamaras or tufts of of hair-fans 
which attendants keep waving about tlie royal per- 
sonage and other signs and emblems of royal state. 

NOTES 

We can easily infer that if Sukra and Chandra in this 
combination are exalted, have good conjunctions and aspects, 
the person will have these ioyal insignia on a grand scale and 
if they are weak or have evil aspects and conjunctions, the 
royal parapharnalia will be on small or poor scale. There are 
Rajas with a few lakhs and emperors with many crores. 

There are Kings and Kings, rulers and rulers, emperors 
and all these have different grades and different insignia. 
In all these sutras, taking the original commentaries and my 
notes the readers will see that they have to shift through a lot 
of conflicting evidence and confusing principles. 1 have tried 
my best to make the explanations, notes, examples as clear 
and convincing as possible. But in spite of all my efforts the 
readers may find doubts and difficulties. Here in such cases, 
my sound advice to them would be that they should read the 
sutra well twice or thrice, read the translations I have given 
and examples by way of illustrations. And after doing so, if 
they still have doubts they must think over well, for n few 
days, read the previous and the future stanzas and I may 



106 


Jaiminisutras 


assure them, that suddenly they will hit upon the correct idea 
or meaning and their doubts will be solved and fresh and 
glorious mental light will flash on their brains, 

tsforcr?: hftm: u 
End of Third Pada of the First Adhyaya. 


am swn«n^ mrw: u 

ADHYAYA 1-PADA 4 

Su. 1 . — Upapadam padam pitranucharat. 

Take the 12th house from Lagna. Find out its 
Pada Lagna or Arudha Lagna. This becomes 
Upapada. 

NOTES 

For ordinary Pada we take the lord of Lagna and we 
count again the same number of Rasis from him as he has 
advanced from Lagna and this becomes Pada or Arudha 
Lagna. For Upapada we have to take from the lord of the 
12th from Lagna and count again that number of Rasis from 
the position of its lord and the sign which falls in that num- 
ber will be Upapada. The meaning will not be clear unless 
I give one or two examples. 

Vrishabha is Lagna. Its iord Sukra joins Dhanus the 8th 
from Lagna. Counting again the 8th from Sukra we get 



Jaiminisutras 


107 


Kataka and this is called Pada or Arudha Lagna (see Sutra 
29 of Pada 1). Now we have to find Upapada. Take the lord 
of the 12th from Lagna. The 12th from Lagna is Mesha. 



Upa- 

pada 

Lagna 

Lagna 

Sani 

Ravi 

Budha 

Guru 

RAS1 

_ 


Sukra 


Kuja 

Kelhu 

l 



Its lord is Kuja and he is found in the 7th from it. The 
seventh from him is again Mesha and in this horoscope 
Arudha Lagna falls in Kataka and it goes under the name of 
Pada. The Upapada will fall in Mesha, and the results in 
this chapter will be predicted with reference to Upapada. 
Take another horoscope. Here calculate the Pada and the 
Upapada Lagnas. The lord of Lagna is Sani and he is in the 
4th from Lagna. The fourth from him or Simha will be 
Arudha or Pada Lagna. Now calculate the Upapada Lagna. 
Take the 12th from Lagna. This falls in Makara. Its lord 
is Sani. He is in the 5th house from it or Vrishabha. Now 
take the 5th from him, it will fall in Kanya. For this person 
Pada Lagna falls in Simha and Upapada falls in Kanya. 

Take another example. In this horoscope the lord of 
Lagna is Guru. He is in Mithuna or the 4th. Count from 
him to the 4th; we see that it falls in Kanya. This will be the 










108 Jaiminisutras 


Rahu 


Sani 

Chandra 



RASI 

Ravi 


Kuja 

Budha 

Sukra 


Guru 


Kethu 

Upa- 

pada 

Lagna 


Pada Lagna for this native. Now take the 12th house from 
Lagna. This will be Kumbha. Its lord is Sani. He is found 
in the 4th from that house in Vrishabha. Count the 4th from 
him and it will be Simha and this will be his Upapada Lagna. 
All Lagnas and Bhavas have their Pada and Upapada, and 
Jaimini seems to pay great attention to Atmakarakamsa, Pada 
Lagna and Upapada Lagna. Some commentators say — Upa- 
padam Labhaditi. This means — take the 7th from Lagna and 
find out the Arudha from it. This becomes the Upapada Lagna. 
Take the horoscope given below. Labha means. La 3, Bha 
4 = 34, reversed it becomes 43, divided by 12, we get a remain- 
der of 7, and therefore the 7th house is meant by this sutra. 

The 7th from Lagna becomes Kanya (see chart on p. 109) 
Its lord Budha occupies the 6th house from it in Kumbha. 
The 6th from Kumbha is Kataka. Therefore for this horoscope 
the Upapada becomes Kataka according to this sutra. Thus in 
this horoscope according to one theory Upapada becomes 
Simha- ..and according to the latter Upapada becomes Kataka. 




Jaiminisutras 


109 


Lagna 

Ravi 

Kethu 

Sani 

Guru 

Budha 

Kuja 

RAS1 

Upa- 

pada 

Lagna 

Sukra 



Rahu 

Chandra 


This makes a great deal of difference. I have indicated the 
differences and leave the readers to follow their own judg- 
ment, experience and personal reading. 

Tt'rei surrey q? u 

Su. 2 . — Tatra papasya papayoge pravrajya 
daranasova. , 

If the Upapada has evil conjunf ion or aspect or 
if the 2nd from it has an evil planet,, the wife will 
die or he will embrace pravrajya or sanyasa or 
asceticism. 


NOTES 

Brihaspathi is quoted here. If there is a malefic planet 
in the Arudha Lagna from the 7th or Jamitra or an evil planet 
in the 7th or 2nd or Rahu is found in the 9th, the wife- of the 
person will be destroyed. 




no 


Jaiminisutras 


V aqmswiwiusrawt* *ra rft: 'mr: it 

Su. 3.— Upapadasyapyarudhatwadeva natra 
ravihi papaha. 

If the second from the Upapada is occupied 
by Ravi he does not become a malefic. 

NOTES 

Somehow all astrological writers have classified Ravi as 
an evil planet. Jaimini says that Ravi is not an evil planet 
when he is in the 2nd house from Upapada. 

ii 

Su. 4.— Shubhadrigyoganna . 

If, in the above combinations in Sutras 2 and 
3, there are beneficial aspects or conjunctions, the 
evil results should not be predicted. 

NOTES 

It means that his wife will not die or he will not take 
sanyasa. The wif^ must die some day or other. What is 
meant here is that during those evil times indicated by the 
planets death will not happen. 

^nrcrcr: u 

Su. 5 . — Neechey daranasaha. 

If the 2nd from Upapada falls in Neechamsa or 
has the conjunction of a Neecha or debilitated planet 
there will surely be death to wife in that evil period. 

II 

Su. 6. — Ucchey bahudaraha. 



Jaiminisutras 


111 


If, in the 2nd from Upapada there is an exalted 
planet or the second falls in an exalted Navamsa, 
the person will have many wives. 

NOTES 

I do not know if many wives add pleasure or misery to 
a person. His lust may be satisfied but he will be miserable. 
It is a question to be solved by each man for himself. 

®. gn* * n 

Su. 1—Yugme cha. 

If the 2nd from Upapada falls in Mithuna, the 
person will have many wives. 

Su. 8 . — Tatra swamiyukte swarkshe va tadhhe- 
tauttarayushi nirdaraha. 

If the 2nd from Upapada is combined by the 
Almakaraka or by the lord of that 2nd sign, the 
person will have no wife in the latter part of his life. 

NOTES 

Here the conjunction of its lord seems to act prejudicially. 

Su. 9 . — Ucche thasminnuttamakuladdara- 
labhaha. 

If the lord of the 2nd from Upapada is found in 
exaltation, his wife will come from a respectable 
family. 



112 


Jaiminisutraa 


NOTES 

Family traditions and previous histories have great 
influence in social circles. 

1 «. || 

Su. 10 . — Neeche viparyayaha. 

If the lord of the second from the Upapada 
joins a debilitated sign, the case will be reversed. 

NOTES 

It means the wife will come from a despicable or mean 
family. Social stigmas are often unpleasant. 

i ii 

Su . 11 . — Shubhasambandhatsundaree. 

If the second from the Upapada has beneficial 
aspects or conjunctions, the wife will be a very 
beautiful woman. 

NOTES 

It is both a fortune and misfortune to have a very 
beautiful wife. Her moral behaviour and the temperament 
of the husband should decide this complicated problem. 

Su. 12 . — Rahusanibhyamapavadatyago naso va. 

If Sani and Rahu occupy or aspect the second 
house from Upapada, the wife will die or will be 
rejected by the husband for social scandals. 

U. <*>«■$<: II 

Su. 13 . — Sukraketubhyam raktapradaraha. 



Jaiminisutras 


113 


]f Sukra and Kethu occupy or aspect the 
second from Upapada the wife will suffer from 
bloody discharges or blood complaints. 

NOTES 

Females have these menstrual and bloody complaints very 
often and they lead to consumption. 

u. u 

Su. 14. — Astisravo budhakethubhyam. 

If the second from Upapada has the aspect or 
conjunction of Budha and Kethu the wife of the 
person will suffer from a disease wherein her 
bones will be melted and dropped down. 
ih. g i Cufafl f ftw f & srct ii 
Su. 1 5 . — Saniravirahubhirastijvaraha. 

If Sani, Ravi and Rahu join or aspect the 
2nd house from Upapada the wife will suffer from 
chronic or persistent low fever. 

NOTES 

In the Ayurvedic system, there is the Raktasrita Jwara 
or fever found persistent in blood and Astigata Jwara or 
fever which has penetrated to the bones and which caimot 
easily be eradicated. The first fever is milder while the- 
second is more serious. Fever is the monarch of all diseases 
and brings in its train various complications. 

H* sfV**n* u 

Su. 16 . — Budhakethubhyam sthaulyam. 

8 



114 


Jaiminisutras 


If the second fiom Upapada is aspected or 
conjoined by Kethu and Budha, the wife becomes 
clumsily corpulent. 


NOTES 

I believe great corpulence and accumulation of fat in 
the body of man or woman is a great misfortune. There is 
a limit to corpulence. When it is unwieldy it gives great 
inconvenience. 

Su. 17. — Budhakshetre mandarabhyam nasika- 
rogaha. 

If the second from Upapada falls in one of the 
signs of Budha, viz., Mithuna or Kanyaand posses- 
ses the aspect or conjunction of Sani and Kuja, 
the wife will suffer from nasal diseases or com- 
plaints of the nose 

%C. || 

Su. 18. — Kujakshetre cha. 

If the second house from Upapada falls in one 
of Kuja’s houses, viz., Mesha or Vrischika and has 
the aspect of Kuja and Sani, the same nasal 
diseases will trouble the man’s wife. 

sv gwftrwrt si?sw * ii 

Su. 19. — Gurusanibhyam karnarogo narahaka 

cha. 



Jaiminisutras 


115 


If the second from Upapada falls in any one 
of the houses of Kuja or Budha and has the aspect 
or conjunction of Guru and Sani, the wife will 
have ear complaints and also nervous diseases. 

*•. II 

Su. 20 . — Gururahubhyam dantarogaha. 

If the second from Upapada falls in any of 
the houses of Budha or Kuja and has the aspect of 
Guru and Rahu, the wife will suffer from tooth 
diseases. 


NOTES 

In Sanskrit it is stated that four forms of diseases are 
the most painful to endure, viz., Akshi- eyes, Kukshi - sto- 
mach, Sira - head and Danta- teeth. These aches are very 
painful. 

si. siftngwrt wr faih ft *r u 

Su. 21 . — Sanirahubhyam kanyathulayoho pan- 
gurvatarogo va. 

If the second from Upapada falls in Kanya 
or Thula and has the aspect of Sani and Rahu, 
the wife will be defective in limbs or will suffer 
from windy complaints. 

NOTES 

Ayurveda says that when the three Dhatus — Vata, Pitta, 
and Sleshma — are properly distributed, the body keeps good 
health. When any one of them is excited, diseases appear. 



116 


Jaiminisutras 


«. 11 

Su. 22,—Subhadrigyoganna. 

If in the combinations given above there are 
beneficial conjunctions or aspects, the evils will 
disappear and bad should not be predicted. 

Su. 23. — Saptamamsagrahebhyaschaivam. 

The above results may also be predicted by the 
7th from Upapada , by the Kalatra Karakamsa 
and by the lords of those houses. 

NOTES 

This means that all the above results good and bad may 
be predicted by the lord of the 7th from Upapada. and by 
the 7th house from Upapada, by the Kalatra Karakamsa and 
also by its lord. For each Bhava so many combinations 
have to be examined that astrological predictions are not 
easy matters. Great devotion is needed. 

Su. 24. — Budhasanisukreshwanapatyaha. 

If the 7th from Upapada and its lord and the 
lord of the Kalatra Karakamsa and its lord — if all 
these four are aspected or conjoined by Budha, 
Sani and Sukra, the person will have no issues. 

Su. 25. — Putreshu ravirahugurubhirbahuputraha. 



Jaiminisutras 


117 


If the Sth house from the 7th, from Upapada, 
its lord, the Kalatra Karakamsa and its lord have 
the aspects or conjunctions of Ravi, Rahu and 
Guru, the person will have many children. 

NOTES 

Rahu seems to .exercise very peculiar influences. 

II 

Su. 26. — Chandrenaikaputraha. 

If in the combination given in Sutra 25, the 
fifth has only Chandra’s aspect or conjunction, the 
person will have only one son. 

first it 

Su, 27 . — Misre vilambathputraha. 

If the 5th in Sutra 25 has combinations and 
aspects, both for many issues and no issues, then 
predict an issue later on in life. 

NOTES 

What the author means is, when there are combinations 
for many children and no children, the person will have 
issues later on in life. The problem of children is curious 
and various. Some beget children very early in life and get 
as many as 20 or 25 by one wife. Others get even 30 to 35 
children by two or three wives one after the other or simul- 
taneously by several wives. There are some who get only a 
limited number. Some get an issue early in life and get no 
more. Some get one child in the middle of their life and there 



118 


Jaiminisutras 


are others who get only one child towards the close of their 
lives. God's creation presents puzzles and confusion all 
round us. 

Su. 28. — Kujasanibhyam dattaputraha • 

If the 5th house, in the combinations given in 
Sutra 25, has the aspect or conjunction of Kuja and 
Sani, the person will have an adopted son. 

NOTES 

I have shown the importance of children in the previous 
notes. There are 14 varieties of children mentioned by the 
Hindu Law. 

5^. «Tt*l *§3*: U 

. Su. 29.- Oje bahuputraha. 

If the 5th from the combinations mentioned in 
Sutra 25 falls in an odd sign, the person will have 
many children. 

\o. ii 

Su. 30. — Yugme alpaprajaha. 

If the 5th sign in the above combinations falls 
in even signs, there will be few issues. 

51 . qs’Wti** iwfcwtSra**, n 

Su. 31.— Gruhakramatkukshitadeesapanchamam - 
sagrahebhyaschaivam. 

Just as you find out from Janmalagna, parti- 
culars about children, so also inquire into the 5th 



Jaimioisutras 


119 


house by considering Upapada and its lord, and 
Putra Karakamsa Rasi and its lord. 

NOTES 

In General Astrology the significations of the 12 Bhavas 
have been well explained. As we take the Rasis, their lords, 
the planets, who conjoin and aspect them and determine the 
results in reference to them so also Jaimini advises the 
students to determine the various results with reference to 
Upapada, its lord and the lord of the Putra Karakamsa and 
the various aspects and conjunctions these houses have as 
also their lords. In fact the same procedure should be 
adopted as in the examination of the 12 Bhavas. Only these 
are taken with reference to birth Lagna and the author says 
instead of the Janmalagna, take the Upapada, its lord and 
Putra Karakamsa. 

*i£m§wrt it 

Su. 32. — Bhratrubhyam sanirahubhyam bhratru- 
nasaha. 

If Sani and Rahu occupy the 11th or the 3rd 
from Upapada and its lord, the elder and the 
younger brothers die respectively. 

NOTES 

The 1 1 th house denotes elder brothers and elder sisters 

* 

and the 3rd indicates the younger brothers and sisters. This 
is well known in General Astrology. We take these from 
Janmalagna. Here Jaimini takes them from Upapada. 

U> afo i wralfrwf4*w i8 II 

Su. 33 .—Sukrenavyavahitagarbhanasaha. 



120 


Jatminisutras 


If Sukra joins the 3rd or the 1 1th from Upapada 
and its lord, the younger and the elder brothers 
will die. 


NOTES 

I have already shown that the 3rd indicates younger and 
the 11th elder brothers and sisters. 

V*. fopn* u 

Su. 34 . — Pitrubhave sukradrishtepi. 

If the Lagna or the 8th house from it has the 
aspect of Sukra, loss must be predicted for elder 
and younger brothers. 

Pitru One — Pa 1, Ta means 6 = 16, reversed it becomes 61, 
divided by 12, we get the Lagna or one. Bhava = 8, Bha 
stands for 4 and Va stands for 4 = 44, divided by 12, we have 
the remainder 8. The commentators refer simply to Lagna 
and Ashtama and we have to take them from Janmalagna. 
How Ashtama or the 8th has anything to do with elder and 
younger brothers, cannot be traced. The Sutra is clear and 
we have to take it as given by the Maharishi. 

V*. il 

Su. 35 . — Kujaguruchandrabudhairbahu bhrata - 
raha. 

If the 11th and 3rd from Upapada and its lord 
are joined by Kuja, Guru, Chandra and Budha, the 
person will have many brothers, elder and younger 
included. 



Jahninisutras 


121 


Su. 36. — Sanyarabhyam drishte yathaswam 
bhratrunasaha. 

If the 3rd and 11th from Upapada have the 
aspect of Sani and Kuja, the person will have his 
brothers destroyed. 

NOTES 

What the 3rd has evil aspects, the younger and when 
the 11th has aspects, the elder brothers will die. If both 
have evil aspects, then the younger as well as the elder brothers 
will die. Sisters are included in brothers. Brethren refers 
to those who are born with a person, males and females 
included. 

v®. tffam qnrrafa g n 

Su. 37. — Sanina swamatraseshascha. 

If the 3rd and 1 1th from Upapada, and its lord 
are aspected by Sani, the person will lose all his 
brothers and sisters and he will remain alone. 

\c. IstV u 

Su. 38 — Kethau bhagineebahulyam. 

If the 3rd and 11th from Upapada and its lord 
has the conjunction of Kethu, the person will have 
many sisters. 

Su. 39. — Labhesadbhagyabheh rahau damstra • 



172 


Jaiminisutras 


If Rahu joins the 2nd from the 7th from 
Upapada , the person will have large teeth or no 
teeth or will become dumb. 

WV 11 

Su. 40. — Kethau stabdhavak. 

If Kethu joins the 2nd house from the 7th from 
Upapada, the person will be an indistinct speaker 
or possesses bad pronunciation. He may also have 
stammering. 

vi. vft f^T: II 

Su. 41 . — Mande Kuroopaha. 

If Sani joins the 2nd house from the lord of the 
7th house from Upapada, the person becomes ugly 
and repulsive. 

v*. n 

Su. 42. — Swamsavasadgowraneelapeetadi- 
vamaha. 

The colour or complexion of the person, yellow, 
dark, golden or white must be predicted from the 
nature of the Navamsa occupied by the Atmakaraka. 

NOTES 

Similarly Jaiinini hints to find out the colours of the vari- 
ous relations from the Navamsas occupied by their respective 
Karakas. Varahamihira says Lagna Navamsapa Thulya 
Tanusyat. Judge the colour, etc., of the person by the Navamsa 
occupied by the lord of Lagna. 



Jaimtnisutras 


123 


**. win'tns'rataraffc: ii 

Su. 43. — Amatyanucharaddevatabhaktihi. 

Take the planet next in degrees to Amatya- 
karaka and find out from him the religious tenden- 
cies of the person. 

NOTES 

As per those rules the next planet in degrees to Amatya - 
karaka will be Bhratrukaraka. If that planet happens to be 
evil, the man will be devoted to the worship of evil spirits, 
if he happens to be good, then he will worship good Gods. In 
the all-powerful Time are embedded 33 crores of Devatas or 
forces or Energies for purposes of creation, protection and 
destruction. Eleven crores of energies are under the control 
of Brahma and his Spouse Saraswathi, representing all educa- 
tion, gnana and intelligence for creative or generative func- 
tions. Eleven crores of energies are under the rule of Vishnu 
with Lakshmi, for functioning protection. Money is needed 
for protection and Lakshmi’s grace is wanted. Eleven crores 
of forces are under the control of Mahesvara with Durga for 
destructive purposes. By tapas man gets psychological energy. 
This enables him to issue orders to the different forces, gene- 
rative, protective and destructive as he develops one of these 
three. Nigraha and Anugraha forms are different. The 
education department increases a man’s knowledge ; the 
District Magistrate has power to offend ; the Sessions Judge 
can hang a man or let him off from the gallows. The postal 
man can transport news and money and small articles. The 
police and the revenue have different functions. All are orders 
or mental forces but each has a different function. By keeping 
company with a scavanger a man gets dirty stink. By asso- 



124 


Jaminisutras 


dating with a scent merchant he gets perfumes. All these 33 
crores of energies are called Devatas and by analogy Gods. 
The psychology of a person differs considerably from others. 
While one cultivates the art of charity and philanthropy, 
another cultivates the art of cruelty and destruction. In this 
sutra the man’s devotion is shown by the planets. When they 
are bad he invokes evil spirits or forces. When good, he 
invokes the beneficial powers. I refer my readers to the 
wilderness of Mantra Sastras. There are sap I a koti mahaman- 
tras and navakoti kshudra mantras. The former enable a 
person to do beneficial actions by the help of Mahamantras 
or beneficial forces. The latter enable the person to call evil 
powers and do mischief to the people. We have Dakshinachara 
or good and Vamachara or bad. 

«». frw qiqt wsfr II 

Su. 44 . — Swamse kevalapapasambandhepara- 
jataha. 

If evil planets occupy Atmakarakamsa Rasi, 
the person will be born of adultery. 

Su. 45 .-—Natrapapath. 

If the Atmakaraka is himself evil and other evil 
planets are not with him, then the evil in the above 
sutra should not be attributed. 

NOTES 

This means he will be legitimate and born to his father. 

«*. it 

Su. 46.— Sanirahubhyam prasiddhihi. 



Jaiminisutras 


125 


IfSani and Rahti are in conjunction with Atma- 
karakamsa Rasi, the person will become a notorious 
rake. 

NOTES 

People indulge in sexual embraces, but many do so with 
some sense of honour. But there are many who are shameless 
in such matters. 

*». ifPwpfrw T: II 

Su. 47. — Gopanamanyebhyaha. 

If in the Atmakarakamsa other evil planets than 
Sani and Rahu are conjoined, the person will 
not be bom to another’s seed, but his mother will 
be immoral. 


NOTES 

A person’s mother may be an immoral woman, but he 
may be the product of legitimate embrace. 

ii 

Su. 48. — Shubhavarge apavadamatram. 

If shubha Shadwarga arises in the Atmakarakamsa 
in the above-mentioned yogas, there will be scan- 
dal about his legitimacy but he will be really born 
of his father’s seed. 

NOTES 

There will be unfounded suspicions about his birth but 
they will not be true. 

»*. fsnjtW: || 

Su. 49. — Dvigrahe kulamukhyaha. 



126 


Jaimtaisutras 


If there are two planets in the Atmakarakamsa, 
the person will become a leader in his community. 

NOTES 

Persons, males as well as females, have peculiar tempera- 
ments. To be a leader in his own community, family, religion, 
science, art, or sect, trade or line of profession is a great 
ambition which they often try to emulate. Even in vices there 
arc leaders and subordinates. The leader of a dacoit gang 
will have hundreds or thousands of persons under him and 
the leadership is courted by his followers and admirers. Take 
any line of work, there are leaders and those who follow them 
as menials and subordinates of various grades. In this leader- 
ship, there is much good or evil the leader can do. If there 
are two or more evil planets in the Karakamsa, the person 
will be cruel and sinful in his deeds. If there are benches, 
we may expect the prominence in good and virtuous ways. 

End of Fourth Pada of the First Adhyaya. 


ADHYAYA 2-PADA 1 

* . wig; u 

Su. 1 . — Aayuh pitrudinesabhyam. 

Longevity of a person has to be determined 
with reference to Lagna and the 8th from it. 



Jaiminisutras 


127 


NOTES 

Pitru—l, Dina= 8; Pa 1, Ta means 6, 16 reversed will 
be — 61, divided by 12 we have a remainder 1. Therefore the 
1st house. Di -8, Na- 0, reversed we get 08. Therefore 8th 
house from Lagna is signified. Jataka Chandrika, following 
Parasara, lays down 8th and 3rd as houses of longevity. 

Su. 2 . — Prathamayoruttarayorva deergham. 

If the lords of the 1st and 8th are in movable 
or common signs or if one of them is in a movable 
and the other in a common sign, there will be 
longevity. 

Su. 3 . — Prathamadwiteeyayorantayorva ma- 
dhyam. 

If the lords of the 1st and 8th are found in 
Chara and Sthira Rasis — movable and fixed — or if 
both of them are in double bodied signs, there will 
be middle life. 

Su. 4 . — Madhyayoradyantayorva heenam. 

If the lords of the 1st and 8th are found in fixed 
signs or one in Chara and other in Dwiswabhava, 
there will be short life. In the second sutra the last 
portion repeats the same idea. 

Su. 5 . — Evam mandachandrabhyam. 



128 


Jaiminisutras 


The rules he has given in the first four sutras 
must also be applied to Chandra Lagna and the 
Lagna. 


NOTES 

Manda - I, Ma 5, Da 8=»58, reversed we have 85, divided 
by 12, we get 1 or first house. Therefore apply the above 
rules for Lagna and Chandra. Here he drops the lord of the 
8th. 

fopilSROT II 

Su. 6. — Pitrukalatascha. 


Poorna 

Madhya 

Alpa 

1 Long 

1 Middle 

1 Short 

1 life 

2 life 

3 life 

2 Long 

2 Middle 

2 Short 

3 life 

1 life 

2 life 

3 Long 

3 Middle 

3 Short 

2 life 

3 life 

1 life 


Long, middle and short lives may also be ascer- 
tained from Lagna and Hora Lagna. 

1 . Chara — Movable. 

2. Sthira — Fixed. 

3. Dwiswabhava — Common or Double bodied sign. 




Jaiminisutras 


129 


Long life is ensured when the above-mentioned lords are — 

1. In two movable signs. 

2. In fixed and common signs. 

3. In common and fixed signs. 

Middle life 

When the two lords are in — 

1. Movable and fixed signs. 

2. Fixed and movable signs. 

3. Common and common signs. 

Short life 

1. Movable and common. 

2. Fixed and fixed. 

3. Common and movable. 

This table enables the reader to readily ascertain from the 
lords of Lagna, Chandra and Hora Lagna and the lord of the 
8th, the term of life of a person. 

». II 

Su. 7. — Samvadatpramanyam. 

Whichever longevity is determined by the 
greater number of combinations of planets, that 
term of life should be predicted and it will happen 
certainly. 

NOTES 

This system of calculation and comparison is called 
samvada. Three systems have been given, viz . , 

1. From the position of the lords of Lagna and the 8tb 
in the movable, fixed and common signs. 


9 



130 


Jaiminigutrai 


2. From the position of the lords of Lagna and Chandra 
Lagna in the above Rasis. 

3. From the position of the Lagna and Hora Lagna in 
the above signs. 1 have already explained what is 
meant by Hora Lagna. 

If the terms of life given by any of these two are opposed 
to or vary from the term of life indicated by one system, then 
the former will prevail. If the calculations from these three 
systems agree, then certainly the person will have that term 
which they show. 

c. u 

Su. 8 . — Visamvade pitrukalataha. 

If three terms of life are indicated by the three 
systems, then the terms obtained by the Lagna and 
Hora Lagna should be preferred and accepted. 

NOTES 

If by one system we get long life, by another system 
middle life and by the third short life, accept that term which 
you get by the Lagna and Hora Lagna and reject the other 
terms obtained by other calculations. 

Su. 9 . — Pitrulabhage chandre chandramanda- 
bhyam. 

If Chandra is in the 7th from Janma Lagna then 
the longevity obtained from the lord of these two 
must be taken as the definite term of a man’s life. 

Alpayu or short life extends from birth to 32 years. 

Madhyayu or middle life extends from 33 to 66 years. 



Jaiminisutras 


131 


Paramayu or ]ong life extends from 67 to 100 years. 

Each Rasi has 30 Bhagas or 30 degrees and the positions 
of planets and houses will have to be taken with reference to 
degrees and minutes they occupy. If the lords of Lagna and 
8th are in the first 10 degrees of the Rasis indicating long life, 
the person will have the full benefit of purnayu. If they are 
in the end of those. Rasis, death must be predicted at the 
commencement of longevity. If they are in the middle, then the 
the extent of the term in longevity must be found out by the 
rule of three. The rule of three should be thus applied. For each 
degree of the Rasi we get 1 year and 36 days as per explana- 
tions of the old commentators. If purnayu counts 34 years 
from 66th year to one hundred, then this has to be divided 
by 30 degrees composing a Rasi. We get 1 year and 48 days 
and not 36 as explained by them. A purnayu man under that 
technical term may die from his 67th year’s age to his 100th 
year. Find out the degrees passed by the lords of Lagna and 
8th in the respective houses they are and then by rule of three 
find out how many degrees and minutes and seconds they 
have passed in those Rasis and ascertain how many years 
they give. Add this to 66 and the years so obtained will be 
the term of life, the parson will have in the longevity period. 
Say they are in 16 degrees 20 minutes and 50 seconds. What 
would be the term of life ? We have taken this in the purnayu. 
If each degree gets 1 year and 48 days, wbat will be the 
number of years, months and days for 16 degrees, 20 minutes 
and SO seconds ? This is simply a question of the rule of 
three. We get 18 years, 6 months, 9 days and 40 ghatis. This 
added to 66, the term of middle life, we get 84-6-9-40. The 
longevity of the person will be 84 years, 6 months, 9 days 
and 40 ghatis and his death mast be predicted after this age. 



132 


Jaiminisutru 


Similarly the a ge must also be ascertained by Hora as well as 
by Chandra Lagna. If there are differences, take the majority 
and decide. In the second and third divisions of Madhya 
and Alpayus or middle or short lives the same procedure has 
to be followed. This gives a clue to predict the correct time 
of death. The author in these sutras has not spoken anything 
about the Balarishta, Madhyarishta and Yogarishta. A very 
large number of infants die before they are eight years of age 
and this is described as death from Balarishta. Then Madhya- 
rishta extends from 8 to 20 years, and we have a large number 
of deaths. Then we have the Yogarishta extending from 20 
to 32. Probably Jaimini includes all these three different 
periods in the Alpayuryoga which extends upto 32 years (see 
my notes in Brihat Jataka and Sarvarthachintamani on these 
various terms of life). Unless we have a full knowledge of 
Balarishta the calculation of Jaimini will not be found useful 
or accurate. An infant dies in the womb, a few minutes after 
birth or months — how can these Yogas apply to them? See 
Pindotpatt i or foetal development given by me in Brihat 
Jataka. 

to. ti 

Su. 10 . — Sanow yogahetou kakshyahrasaha. 

If in the above combinations Sani causes the 
Pumayuryoga, then place it as Madhyayuryoga. If 
he causes Madhyayuryoga, then put it in Alpa and 
if he causes Alpa, then consider it as still less and 
predict very early death 

n. H 

Su. 11 .—Vipareetamityanye. 



Jaiminisutras 


133 


Some others are of opinion that when the longe- 
vity is caused by Sani there should be no Kakshya 
Hrasa or deduction or degradation. They mean that 
the term indicated by Sani should hold good. 

i*. * II 

Su. 12 . — Na swarkshathungage satire. 

If Sani causing longevity occupies his own or 
exalted house, Kakshya Hrasa — or reduction — 
should not be applied. 

H* Wgqwwlfi r ft w n 

Su. 13 . — Kevalapapadrigyogini cha. 

If Sani, causing longevity, has many evil aspects 
and conjunction, then, Kakshya Hrasa should not 
be predicted. 

tv. fojsrah g*V gs rc n ftft ft * **f*ni%: n 

Su. 14 . — Pitrulabhage gurow kevala shubha- 
drigyogim cha kakshyavriddhihi. 

If Guru occupies the Lagna or the 7th has no 
evil conjunctions or aspects, but beneficial aspects 
and conjunctions, he will cause increase or Kakshya- 
vriddhi. 

NOTES 

This means, if short life is revealed by the planetary 
conjunctions, he will push it into middle life, if middle life is 
denoted by the planetary positions', he will cause long life, if 



134 


JaiminisuttM 


long life is indicated, then he will grant the person life term 
beyond a hundred years. 

Su. 15 . — Maline dwarabahye navamse nidha - 
nam dwaradwaresayoscha malinye. 

If *Dwarabahya Rasis are malefic signs or if 
malefics occupy these Dwarabahya Rasis, or if the 
lord of Dwarabahya Rasi is a malefic, death will 
happen in the Navamsa Dasas of such Dwarabahya 
Rasis. 


NOTES 

Dwara Rasi is the sign which commences the period for 
a man. This will be some sign from the Lagna. Like the 
Pada Lagna, that sign from it which bears the same number 
from Dwara Rasi will be called Dwarabahya Rasi. Suppose 
the 4th from Lagna is the Dwara Rasi, which commences 
the Dasa, the 4th from it or the 7th forms the Dwarabahya 
Rasi. In the Jaiminisutras later on will be explained the 
Rasi Dasas or periods and sub-periods and when a man 
would be killed. This method of attributing Dasas and 
Bhuktis to Zodiacal signs is not even hinted at in other 
books. There the Dasas and Bhuktis are attributed to 

* The sutra is very tough and even the commentators have not come to 
our rescue. It has reference to Maraka or death and has been dealt with 
by me in my Studies in Jaimini Astrology. The Rasi in which a Dasa 
begins at birth is Dwara Rasi. Suppose the Lagna is Meena and the Dwara 
Rasi is the 5th from it, viz., Kataka. Then the 5th from Kataka y v/z. y 
Vrischika will be called Bahya (Dwarabahya) Rasi. Dwara Rasi is also 
called Paka Rasi while Babya Rasi is also known as Bhoga Rasi. 



Jaiminisutras 


139 


planets and constellations. In the Amsayurdaya of 
Satyacharya, Lagna in any sign contributes its own term of 
life. These Dwarabahya Rasis are also called Pakabhoga 
Rasis. Paka means Dasa. If these two Dwarabahya Rasis 
are evil signs, death will result in the period of an evil 
Navamsa in them. If the lords of these two Rasis have evil 
aspects or conjunctions, death must be predicted in the 
period of the evil Navamsa. Death always happens under 
the greatest malefic planet and malefic Rasi. 

H. n 

Su. 16. — Shubhadrigyoganna. 

If to the Dwarabahya Rasis, and the Rasi occu- 
pied by Dwarabahya there are beneficial aspects 
and conjunctions, there will be no death in the 
Navamsa periods of those Rasis. 

Su. 17 . — Rogese tunge navamsavriddhihi. 

If the lord of the 8th from Lagna joins exalta- 
tion, there will be increase of life in the Dasa of 
the Navamsa thus averting the death indicated in 
the above combinations. 

Su. 18 . — Tatrapi padesadasante padanavamsa - 
dasayam pitrudinesatrikone va. 

If there is an increase of life as per Sutra 17, 
then death will happen in Navamsa Dasa of the 
Rasi occupied by Arudhalagnadhipathi ; in the 



136 


Jaiminisutras 


Dasas of Rasis which are in trikona to lords of 
Lagna and 8th ; in the Navamsa Dasa of the Rasi 
containing Arudha Lagna. 

NOTES 

Pitru 1, Pa stands for 1, Ta denotes 6=16, reversed it 
is 61, divided by 12, we have 1 remainder, and it means 
Lagna. Dina 8, Da stands for 8 and Na 0 = 80, reversed it 
means 08, or the 8th house. If in the Vriddhi paksha named 
in Sutra 17, the death does not happen then, when can the 
person expect death. Jaimini here gives the periods when 
death may be expected . The Arudhadhipathi or the lord of 
Pada Lagna occupies some Rasi. Death may be predicted 
in the Navamsa Rasi Dasa. Death may also happen in the 
Dasas of the Trikonas from Lagna and the 8th or in the 
Navamsa Dasa of the Arudha Rasi from Lagna. He has 
given here three sets of combinations. 

1 . Death may occur in the Dasas of Trikonas from Lagna 
and the 8th. 

2. Death may occur in the Navamsa Dasa of the Arudha 
Rasi. 

3. It may happen in the Navamsa Dasa from the Rasi 
occupied by the lord of Arudha Lagna. 

Su. 19 .—Pitrulabharogesapranini kantakadis- 
the swataschaivam thridha. 

If the lord of the 8th from Lagna and the lord 
of the 8th from the 7th, from Lagna are powerful 
and occupy Kendras, Panaparas and Apoklimas, 



Jaiminisutras 


137 


then they cause long, middle and short lives res- 
pectively. 

NOTES 

The lord of the 8th from Lagna and the lord of the 8th 
from the 7th from Lagna must be powerful. If they occupy 
Kendras, they give long life. If they occupy Panaparas, 
they produce middle life. If they occupy Apoklimas, they 
produce short life. 

Kendras are 1, 4, 7 and 10 from Lagna. Panaparas 
are 2, 5, 8 and 11 from Lagna. Apoklimas 3, 6, 9 and 12 
from Lagna. 

Su. 20 .— Yogatsame swasmin vipareetam. 

If Atmakaraka joins the 7th from the 7th 
(Lagna), the meaning conveyed in Sutra 19 will 
have to be differently interpreted. 

NOTES 

In this Sutrh he is going to shew some special results. 
These are called Viparitas or perverts in meaning. The 7th 
from the 7th will be Lagna itself. If by Sutra 19 longevity 
is indicated, then call it middle life, if they indicate middle, 
call it short life, if short life is shown say there will be a 
very little term of life. If it is long, say it will be short, if 
it is short, say long, if it is middle, then call it middle. Com- 
mentators give some more hints. If the lord of the 8th from 
Lagna is in exaltation, then he will give one-half more than 
what could be expected from him. 



138 


Jaiminisutra 


If he occupies a debilitated Rasi, then he will cut off one- 
half of what he would have given under normal conditions. 
Similarly when there are exalted and debilitated planets in 
the 8th we have to draw inferences and add or take away 
from the terms of life indicated by them. 

*1. Tift®: STH: II 

Su. 21 . — Rasitaha pranaha. 

The strength of the Rasis must be properly 
ascertained. 

NOTES 

Jaimini gives particular strength to Rasis, other Shas- 
tras also attach importance to Rasis. He details Karaka- 
yogas shortly. He says that much strength need not be 
attached to Amsa. 

^ m nwra; u 

Su. 22 . — m Rogesayoh swata aikye yoge va 
madhyam. 

If the 8th houses from Lagna and the 7th are 
joined by their Karakas or if they happen to be 
themselves Karakas, if the lords of the 8th house 
from Lagna and the 7th are occupying Kendras, 
Panaparas or Apoklimas, then the terms of life 

• I have not meddled with the English rendering of this sutra by 
Prof. Q. Suryanarain Rao. I understand it thus : “If the lord of the 
8th from Lagna or the 8th from the 7th is himself Atmakaraka ; or 

are in conjunction with Atmakaraka, the terms of life mentioned in 
Sutra 19 are to be reduced.** The rest is clesr from Prof. Rao*s 
notes. 



Jaiminisutras 


139 


ascertained from the combinations shown in Sutra 
19 will have to be reduced. 

NOTES 

If the life indicated is long, then convert it into middle, 
if it is middle, then reduce it to short, and if it is short, then 
fix' death very early. This kind of increase or decrease 
depends on the particular positions of planets and the Rasis 
they occupy and these matters should be particularly and 
carefully studied and the positions of the planets should be 
properly understood. 

Su. 23 . — Pitrulabhayoh papamadhyatwe kone 
papayoge va kakshyahrasaha. 

If Lagna and 7th from it lie between evil planets, 
or if evil planets are in the Trikonas from Lagna 
and Saptama, Kakshyahrasa or deductions and 
additions must be made for terms of life which are 
obtained by planetary positions. 

**. ii 

Su. 24. — Swasminnapyevam. 

If the Karaka is between the evil planets or evil 
planets conjoin the Trikonas from him, Kakshya- 
hrasa should be made. 

Su. 25 . — Thasminpape neeche-atunge-ashubha- 
samyukte cha. 



140 


Jaiminisutras 


If the Karaka joins Neecha or does not join 
the exaltation or if he is not in conjunction with 
benefics, Kakshyahrasa should be made. 

NOTES 

A house or planet is said to be between malefics when 
the 2nd and 12th from it are occupied by evil planets. When 
two evil planets are on both sides of a Lagna or a planet, it 
forms Kartariyoga and acts prejudicially to the Bhava indi- 
cated by the Rasi or the planet. 

II 

Su. 26. —Anyadanyatha. 

If Lagna and Saptama (7th) or if Karaka and the 
7th from him are between beneficial planets or if 
the Trikonas from Janma and Karaka Lagnas are 
occupied by benefics, if the Karaka happens to be 
a benefic, if he is in exaltation and not in debili- 
tation or has beneficial conjunction, there should 
be no Kakshyahrasa made. 

* u 

Su. 27 . — Gurou cha. 

If Guru happens to be Karaka and has evil 
planets in 2nd, 12th, 6th and 8th and in the houses 
forming Trikonas from him or has evil planets with 
him or he is not in exaltation or joins Neecha Rasi, 
Kakshyahrasa should be made. And in cases where 



Jaiminisutras 


Ml 


these combinations are reversed increase must be 
predicted. 

it 

Su. 28 . — Purnendusukrayorekarasivriddhihi. 

If Purna Chandra and Sukra become Karakas 
and occupy the positions named in the above sutras, 
they will give an increase of one Rasi Dasa. 

NOTES 

A certain Rasi Dasa becomes death inflicting but when 
such a combination is present, this Dasa will pass off and 
the next Dasa will cause death. This means they will increase 
the longevity of the person. 

Su. 29 . — Sanau vipareetham. 

If Sani becomes Karaka and is found in the 
places named in the previous sutras, he causes 
Kakshyahrasa in the earlier Dasa than the maraka. 

NOTES 

This means he will cut short the life by one Dasa and 
therefore earlier than the allotted time; when Chandra, Sukra 
and Sani become powerful in these directions, we need not 
take other planets into consideration and there will be no 
decreases. 

V*. ftmqsrwt u 

Su. 30 . — Sthiradasayam yathakhandam nidha- 
nam. 



142 


Jainrinisutra* 


Three sections for Ayurbhavaor longevity have 
been explained, viz., long, middle and short lives. 
In the Sthira Dasa suppose the term of life is 
settled as middle. If a death-inflicting planet or 
Dasa comes in the period of Alpayu, the person 
will not die, but will suffer sickness and misery at 
the time. 

NOTES 

For death he must wait for the middle term and the 
maraka there. Sthira Dasas seem to prolong life to a certain 
extent. 

II 

Su. 31. — Tatrarkshaviseshaha. 

In the matter of death, note the peculiarity of 
the Rasi. That is death will happen in the Dasa of 
the Marana Karaka Rasi. 

NOTES 

Divide the 12 signs into 3 Khandas or sections and 
predict the death for short life in the first Khanda, for middle 
life in the second Khanda, and for long life in the third 
Khanda in that Rasi Dasa which is cruel or which possesses 
the power to inflict death. Suppose a man gets Alpayu or 
short life as the result of the planetary and sign peculiarities 
foreshadowed in the previous sutra on longevity ; then his 
death must be and will be caused by the most cruel in the 
first Khanda, or the first four signs. Middle life will' have 
death in next four signs and the long life will have an end in 
the most cruel of the last four Rasi Dasas. 



jjalminisutras 


143 


qi«ro^ qi w tS l ftgfbmb *T II 

Su. 32. — Papamadhye papakone ripurogayoh 
pape va. 

If the Dasa is between malefics or has evil 
planets in its Trikonas, or has evil planets in 12 
and 8, such a Dasa will cause death to the person. 

«. 5T II 

Su. 33. — Tadeesayoho kevalaksheenendusttkra- 
drishtow va 

If the lords of the 12th and 8th are aspected by 
Ksheenachandra and Sukra, the Dasa of the 12th 
or 8th will inflict death. 

NOTES 

Ksheenachandra is powerless or New-Moon Sukra must 
also be weak or powerless. Here Jaimini seems to hint 
that those lords should have no other planetary aspects 
to kill the person. When a combination is given, there 
should be no disturbing agencies to produce the result. 

Vi. n 

*SU. 34. — Tatrapyadyarksharinathadrisyanava- 
bhagadva. 

* This is a rather tough stanza and Professor Rao’s notes are not clear. 
Of the several Rasi Dasas which are capable of causing maraka, death is 
likely to occur (1) in the first Rasi Dasa (2) Find the lord of the 6th from 
the Rasi whose Dasa is the first. See what Navamsa this lord aspects. 
Death will take place in the sub-period of that Navamsa Rasi. Suppose 
Dhanus is the first Rasi Dasa. Death will happen either in this or the 6th 
from Dhanus, viz., Taurus and the lord of Taurus is Venus, Suppose, he 
aspects Kanya in Navamsa. The death will happen in the sub-period of 
this Kanya Navamsa Rasi. 



144 


Jaiminisutras 


Of the Rasi Dasas which have the power to 
cause death, death is likely to happen in the first 
Rasi Dasa and the sub-period of Rasi of the Nav- 
amsa Rasi which is aspected by the planet who is 
lord of the 6th from the Rasi whose Dasa is the first. 

NOTES 

As per principles explained in the previous sutras the 
author determines the period of death. The First Rasi which 
commences the Dasa and the Dasa which its 6th sign fur- 
nishes, find out their lord and see what Navamsas they 
aspect, death will happen in the sub-period of that Navamsa 
Rasi which they aspect. These are referred to in the 
Navamsa Kundali or Diagram. 

Vs. u 

Su. 35 . — Pitrulabhabhavesapranee rudraha. 

Whoever is stronger among the lords of the 8th 
from Lagna he gets the name of Rudra. 

NOTES 

The symbol of Rudra will be given to the lords of the 
Rasis which are stronger in the 8th houses from Lagna and 
Saptama or 7th. 

tt. WJTprcrft II 

Su. 36 . — Apranycipi papadrishtaha . 

If the weaker among the lords of the two 
houses, 8th from Lagna and 7th, is aspected by 
malefics, he will also get the name of Rudra. 



Jaiminisutru 


145 


NOTES 

Thus sometimes there may be two Rudras instead of one. 

V». aiflifcr groi n 

Su. 37 . — Pranini subhadrishte rudrasulantha- 
mayuhu. 

If the powerful Rudra is aspected by benefics, 
death may be predicted in the Rudra Rasi, or in 
the periods of its Trikona Rasis 1, 5 and 9. 

NOTES 

First classify and find out under what heading the term 
of life falls and then predict death at the end of the Dasa 
which is cruel. 

trarfa gprtftil u 

Su. 38 . — Tatrapi subhayogay. 

Even, if the weaker of the planets, when he has 
evil aspects get the name of Rudra, has beneficial 
conjunctions or aspects he will extend the length of 
life, to the Rudra Rasi Dasa or the Dasas Sth and 
9th from it. 


NOTES 

Trikona Dasas are what are technically called Shoola 
Dasas. Trikonas are 1, 3 and 9. 

^ n 

Su. 39 . — Vyarkapapayoge na. 

10 



146 


Jaiminisutras 


The above results should not be predicted if 
other planets than the Sun, should be in the 5th 
and 9th from the two Rudras. 

NOTES 

If Ravi is there, he will not obstruct the results above 
mentioned. In some Yogas the presence of the Sun does 
not count. In Sunapha, Anapha, Dhurdhura and Kema- 
druma, the presence of the Sun is not taken into account. 

Su. 40. — Mandarendudrishtesubhayogabhave 
papayogepi va shubhadrishtow va parataha. 

If the two Rudras become evil, death will come 
in the first Shoola Dasa; if one of them becomes 
evil, death will happen in the second Shoola Dasa; 
and if both of them are favourable, death will come 
in the last of the 3rd Shoola Dasa. 

NOTES 

This means that if both Rudras are bad, early death, if 
one of them is bad, longer life and if both of them are good, 
the longest term of life will be enjoyed in the periods to be 
determined by the principles already explained. Sutras are 
unpardonably short, sweet, suggestive and comprehend a 
great deal which the readers are expected to know, analyse 
and remember. These general sources of knowledge and the 
constructive capacity of the language enabled those intellec- 
tual giants of India, viz., the great Maharishis to frame 
rules and Sastras and Sutras with great ease and facility and 



Jaiminisutras 


14 ? 


bequeath to the later generations mines of intellectual trea- 
sures, whose depths have not yet been completely explored 
or examined by the greatest cultured brains of the present 
day. It is not possible for the greatest scholars in Sanskrit 
to frame a single Sutra, which can compare favourably 
with the Sutras of the ancient Maharishis. They had the 
Tapobala to their credit, led the most simple lives, developed 
the brain power to the greatest conceivable extent and set 
examples of devotion and contemplation on sublime subjects, 
which gave them vast mental resources, and made them write 
works, which are the admiration of the most profound scho- 
lars of the present age. This sutra requires lengthy explana- 
tion and I shall make no apology to do so for the benefit of 
my readers. The commentators have called the following 
from ancient writers. Jaimini’s views and explanations some- 
times differ considerably from Varahamihira and others. 
Ravi, Kuja, Sani and Rahu are classified as evil planets, one 
stronger than the other. Rahu is the most powerful malefic, 
next to Sani, next to Kuja and then to Ravi ; Guru, Kethu, 
Sukra and Budha are benefics, one stronger than the other. 
Guru is the most beneficial, next comes Kethu, next Sukra 
and Budha comes last. If Chandra has the conjunction of 
Kuja, he is classified as evil, otherwise he is good. If Ravi 
and other evil planets occupy evil signs, they become more 
and more evil. If they occupy beneficial signs, they become 
good. If Guru and other benefics occupy beneficial signs, 
they become very favourable. If they occupy evil signs, 
they become bad. Budha becomes a benefic if he is in 
exaltation or is in an independent sign. Guru and Sukra 
in the house of Budha, viz., Kanya and Mithuna become 
very beneficial so also in other beneficial signs. 



148 


Jaiminisutras 


* 1 . *n^n n 

Su. 41 . — Rudrasrayepi prayena. 

Death may happen sometimes in the Rasi Dasa 
occupied by Rudra. 

NOTES 

The word prayena means death may happen in them, 
earlier or the later Dasa from the Rudra Dasa. 

Raft n 

Su. 42 . — Kriye pitari viseshena. 

If the Lagna falls in Kriya or Mesha, death 
often takes place in the Rudra Dasa. 

NOTES 

Pitari means Lagna. Pa 1 Ta 6-61, divided by 12 
the balance is 1, hence Janma Lagna. 

Su. 43.— Prathamamadhyamottameshu va tatta- 
dayusham. 

To persons having short, middle and long lives, 
death happens in the first, second and third Shoola 
Rasi Dasas. 

NOTES 

The sub-period, when the death happens, will be the 
Antardasa of a cruel Rasi Dasa in their respective periods 
or sections. I have already shown in the previous chapter 
how the rule of three should be applied to get the correct 
date of death. 



Jaiminisutras 


149 


««. sfcwr: II 

Su. 44 . — Swabhaveso maheswaraha. 

The lord of 8th house from Atmakaraka goes 
under the name of Maheswara. 

NOTES 

Atmakaraka has great significance in Jaimini Sutras. 

Su. 45 . — Swochhe swabhe ripubhavesapranee. 

If the lord of the 8th from Atmakaraka is 
exalted or is in his own house, then the stronger of 
the two, viz . , the lords of the 8th and 12th from the 
Karaka will also go under the name of Maheswara. 

NOTES 

If both of them are equally strong, then both become 
Maheswaras. 

qraiwrt sast tnrtfr rfr m: n 

Su. 46 . — Patabhyam yoge swasya tayorvaroge 
tataha. 

If Atmakaraka has conjunction with Rahu or 
Kethu, or if the 8th from Atmakaraka has conjunc- 
tion with Rahu or Kethu, then the 6th planet 
counting regularly from the Sun will become 
Maheswara. 

NOTES 

Thus we have 3 Maheswaras. Counting the 6th from 
the Sun will be the Sun, Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter and 



ISO 


Jaiminisutru 


the 6th will be Venus or Sukra. On the above combination 
Sukra becomes Maheswara. Of the three varieties of Mahe- 
swaras, he alone becomes Maheswara who is the strongest 
among these three. Rog in this Sutra means 8, Patabhya 
has been rendered as Rahu and Kethu. I cannot understand 
how this has been interpreted as Rahu and Kethu by the 
commentators— Pata 1, Bha 2. Probably after the 7 planets, 
Bhya-Bhya the 1st is Rahu and the second is Kethu. 
Patha may specially mean Rahu and Kethu. 

fNroit n 

Su. 47. — Prabhubhavavaireesapranee pitrulabha- 
pranyanucharo vishamastho brahma. 

Find out which is the stronger of the two Rasis, 
Lagna and Saptama or 7th. Then find out which of 
the lords of the 6th, 8 th and 12 th from it is stronger, 
and if he occupies an odd sign in the Parswa Rasis 
from the stronger of Lagna or Saptama (7th), he 
will be named as the Brahma planet. 

NOTES 

He is going to explain in this sutra the planet who goes 
under the peculiar signification of Brahma. The Parswa Rasis 
or side signs are the 7th, 8th, 9th, 10th, 11th and 12th from 
Lagna. The 6 signs from Lagna, viz., 1st, 2nd, 3rd, 4th, 5th 
and 6th are denominated as Parswa Rasis to the saptama 
parswas. Odd and even signs are well known and have been 
explained in the earlier notes. This is rather a difficult 
sutra and must be carefully studied and understood. One of 
the two signs Lagna and Saptama will be stronger. Take 



Jaiminisutras 


151 


the lords of the three houses, 6th, 8th and 12th from the 
stronger of these two signs Lagna and 7th. Find out who is 
strongest of these three lords. If he is in an odd sign from 
the Parswa Rasis to the stronger Rasi in Lagna or Saptama, 
he becomes the planet called Brahma. To my humble mind 
the procedure seems to be very complicated. Jaimini is a 
Maharishi and he knows best. He has made these sutras as 
short and as sweet as possible and our intellects are not 
competent even to understand them. Where is then the 
justification to find fault with their composition or the inter- 
pretations put upon them by the ablest commentators? 
Learned commentators are a great boon to mankind. 
Without them many valuable works would have remained 
scaled letters. 

»«. asrift emV qmWh m: n 

Su. 48 . — Brahmani sanau patayorva tataha. 

If Sani, Rahu or Kethu becomes Brahma, the 
6th planet from him will be designated as Brahma 
in which case -the other three will not have the 
Brahma power. 

NOTES 

The 6th planet must mean planet taken 6th in the 
regular order, Ravi, Chandra, Kuja, Budha, Guru, Sukra. 
Suppose, Kethu becomes Brahma, the 6th from him would 
be Guru. Similarly for other planets. Thatha-6 Tha 6, 
Tha 6-66, divided by 12 we get the remainder 6 and hence 
the 6th house from the planet is meant. 

as. iprt wrfto: II 

Su. 49. — Bahunam yoge swajateeyaha. 



152 


Jaiminiiutru 


If many get the powers of Brahma (say three or 
four planets at a time), then that planet becomes 
Brahma who is next in degree to Atmakaraka. 

NOTES 

The next in degrees to Atmakaraka will become Amatya- 
karaka. Therefore in such cases Amatyakaraka becomes 
Brahma. 

II 

Su. 50 . — Rahuyoge yipareetam. 

When Rahu also gets Brahmatwa, then the 
conditions will be reversed. 

NOTES 

This means that planet becomes Brahma who gets the 
lowest number of degrees among the Brahmas. This is per- 
fectly intelligible. Suppose Guru gets 29 degrees in Mesha, 
then as per Jaimini rule he becomes Atmakaraka. These 
planets move forwards. But suppose in that horoscope, 
Rahu has only 20 minutes to pass in Mesha instead of Guru 
Rahu becomes the Atmakaraka. He has the backward 
movement, and therefore has the largest number of degrees 
to his credit in the inverse order. While Guru has 29 degrees 
in the forward movement, Rahu has 29 degrees and 40 
minutes in his backward motion. Therefore Rahu has a 
longer number of degrees. 

hi. nin wnWfr u 

Su. 51 . —Brahma swabhaveso bhavasthaha. 



Jaiminisutras 


1S3 


The lord of the 8th from Atmakaraka as also 
the planet who occupies that house becomes 
Brahma. 


NOTES 

Thus many Brahmas have been enumerated and the 
reader must carefully study these rules. Bhava 8, Bha 4, 
Va 4-44, divided by 12, the remainder is 8. 

Su. 52 . — Vivade balee. 

Between the two planets the lord of the 8th 
from Atmakaraka and the planet who joins the 8th, 
the stronger of the two becomes Brahma. 

NOTES 

When there are many Brahmas, the strongest of the lot 
will be the Brahma. The results flowing from the Brahma 
and Maheswara planets will be explained hereafter. Students 
must be very careful. 

m*. n 

Su. 53 .—Brahmano yavanmaheswararksha- 
dasantamayuhu . 

The longevity extends through the Rasis com- 
mencing from Brahma and counting upto the Rasi 
containing Maheswara. 

NOTES 

Jaimini has explained how to fix the planets, Rudra, 
Maheswara and Brahma. 



154 


Jaiminisutras 


Su. 54 . — Tatrapi maheswarabhavesatrikonabde. 

The period of death must be determined thus ; 
Maheswara will be in a sign. Take the Dasa of this 
Rasi, take the lord of 8th house from Maheswara. 
Take the Trikonas from him, viz., 1, 5 and 9. Pre- 
dict death in the Antardasa of any one of these 
Dasas which is strong enough to inflict death. 

Su. 55 . — Swakarmachittaripuroganathapranee 
marakha. 

The strongest among the lords of 3, 6, 12 and 
8 from the Atmakaraka will inflict death. 

NOTES 

First settle about the terms of life, short, middle and 
long. If all the four lords mentioned above are of equal 
strength, predict death in such period by the evil Dasa, which 
intervenes at that time. The lords of 6 and 8 are powerful 
marakas, of these two, lord of the 6th is more powerful in 
causing death. Death will happen when the Dasas of 6 or 8 
come. Death will occur in the sub-periods of the lords of 
Trikonas from 8th and 6th houses, of these Trikona periods 
from the 6th are more powerful. If the lord of the 6th is 
powerful, then the Dasas of Trikona Rasis from him would 
inflict death. 

Su. 56 .—Thadrukshadasayam nidhanam. 



Jaiminisutras 


15 


Death will happen in the Rasi Dasa occupied 
by the maraka planet or in the Dasa of the Rasi of 
which he is the lord. 

Su. 57. —Tatrapi kaladripurogachittanathapahare 
Take Atmakaraka. Find out the 7th from him. 
Take Ripu, Roga, Chitta or 12, 8 and 6th from it. 
The lords of these occupy some houses. Death may 
happen in the Dasas of such signs or the Dasas of 
the houses owned by these lords. 

NOTES 

After having ascertained such Marakagraha Rasis, he 
directs his readers to find out the special sub-periods which 
would cause death. Dasas of houses have to be counted 
from Chara, Sthira and Dviswabhava in the particular order 
named under that section. Some Rasi Dasa becomes maraka. 
If there are many Rasis which get the maraka power, find 
out the strongest among them and attribute death to it. 
Suppose there is a sign without a planet, with a planet with 
a planet who is its lord and a house with benefics. The last 
will be the most powerful among the houses named above. 
The first without a planet will be the weakest. The potentia- 
lities of planets and the houses have been very elaborately 
explained in the earlier Sutras. These principles may also 
be learnt from the general study of Astrology. Take Mesha 
without any planet, with Sani, with Ravi, with Chandra 
with Guru, with Sukra and with Kuja, Rahu or Ketta. 



156 


Jaiminisutras 


Its potentialities vary with the presence or absence of these 
planets and other aspects and conjunctions it has. 

End of First Pada of Second Adhyaya. 


ADHYAYA 2-PADA 2 

1. Tfagprat: snuft 5ISW: II 

Su. 1 . — Ravisukrayoh pranee janakaha. 

Out of Venus and the Sun, the stronger will 
become the makara for father. 

NOTES 

In the previous section Jamini has explained about the 
Maraka Dasa for a person, when he would die, and which 
Dasa and Amsa Dasa would kill him. I must confess here 
in spite of the elaborate explanations offered for the fixing of 
the period of death, the system seems to be complicated and 
cannot easily be grasped by the ordinary students. Even 
intelligent students will have to pour long hours, and much 
devotion to understand these complicated principles and fix 
correctly the time of death. For determining the terms of 
longevity, the other systems are no doubt hard and laborious, 
but it may be, they are simpler than the one illustrated by 
the Maharishi in his inimitable sutras, which cannot easily 
be deciphered by common men. In this section rules are 
given to find out the deaths of father, mother and other 
important relations. A man’s comforts and peace of mind 



Jaiminisutras 


157 


and happiness in the world depend greatly upon his relations, 
his friends and his servants. When these are inimicable, the 
man certainly becomes miserable. Ravi and Sukra repre- 
sent father in a horoscope. The stronger of the two will 
cause the death of father. In general astrology Ravi and 
Chandra represent father and mother respectively. Varaha- 
mihira says Divarkasukrau pitrumatrusamgnitou sanais- 
charayndu nisitadwiparyayat . For persons born during the 
day, Ravi and Sukra represent father and mother respec- 
tively. For those who are born during nights Chandra and 
Sani denote father and mother respectively. 

-'**■{{ It II 

Su. 2. — Chandraarayorjananee. 

The stronger of the two planets Chandra and 
Kuja will kill the mother. 

W Wlo q ft INTO: II 

Su. 'h.—Apranyapi papadrishtah. 

Among the four planets Ravi, Sukra, Chandra 
and Kuja whoever is weak and possesses evil 
aspects will cause the death of father and mother. 

NOTES 

Prany means strength. Aprany denotes want of 
strength, viz., weakness. 

«. rnfaft sprod fa'** ii 

Su. 4.-rPranini shubhadrishte tatchule nidha - 
nam matapitroh. 



1S8 


Jaiminisutras 


If, among the planets named above Ravi, Sukra, 
Chandra and Kuja, whoever has got beneficial 
aspects, the death of father and mother must be 
predicted in the Shoola Dasa — 1st, 5th or 9th Rasi 
Dasa from the powerful planet. 

h. n 5. 11 

Su. 5 and 6. (5) Tadbhavese spashtabale. 

(6) Thatchula ityanye. 

If the, lord of the 8th from the lords of father 
and mother is powerful, then the period of the 
Shoola Rasis from him will inflict death on the 
father and the mother. 


NOTES 

This opinion is held by some writers. Two planets for 
father and two for mother have been named, whoever is 
stronger out of these two will have the death arranged in 
their Shoola Dasas. 

*. wgft wrui; 11 

Su. l.—Ayushi chanyat. 

As deaths have to be predicted for father and 
mother by their Karakas, similarly events have to 
be predicted for others from their Karakas and the 
Shoola Dasas from them. 

NOTES 

This means for all events in life there are Rasis and 
Karakas. Rules governing the above for mother and father 
will also apply similarly for other events. 



Jaiminisutras 


159 


«. wferftfr aqiftrfr gufoq n rct ftgftwft it 

Su. 8. — Arkagnayoge tadasrithe kriye lagrta- 
meshadasayam piturityeke. 

If the 12th house from Lagna falls in any one of 
these three signs, viz., Mithuna, Simha or Kanya 
and has the conjunction of Ravi and Budha, death 
happens in the Dasa of the 5th from it. 

NOTES 

Kriya 12, Ra 2, Ya 1 =21, inverted it denotes 12. 

Mesha means 5th, Ma 5, Sha 6-56, reversed it gives 65 
divided by 12, we have remainder 5, and fifth house is meant 
by Mesha. Mesha in ordinary language means Aries. But 
in Jaimini it has to be interpreted by Ka, Ta, Pa, Ya sutra. 

Su. 9. — Vyarkapapamatradrishtayoh pitroh 
pragawadasabdat. 

Whether the lords of father and mother are 
powerful or powerless, if they have the aspects of 
evil planets other than the Sun, the death of father 
and mother may be predicted before the 12th year 
of a person’s age. 

1*. 3^$ V3WW II 

Su. 10. — Gurusule kalatrasya. 

The Dasas of 1st, 5th or 9th Rasis from the 
position of Guru will cause the death of his wife. 



160 


Jaiminisutru 


NOTES 

He names three Dasas called Shoolas. The worst 
among them will kill the wife. 

1 1 . II 

Su. 11 . — Thattatchoole tesham. 

Death will happen to children, uncles, etc., in 
the Dasas of 1st, 5th and 9th Rasis from the 
Karakas who govern those events. 

NOTES 

Take the Putrakaraka and predict death to children in 
the Shoola Dasas from him. Take the Matulakaraka. The 
Shoola Dasas from him will kill uncles, etc. 

js. wtwrq; ii 

Su. 12 . — Karmani papayutadrishte dushtam 

maranam. 

If the 3rd from Lagna or Karaka has the aspect 
or conjunction of evil planets, death will be painful 
and troublesome. 


NOTES 

Death is a peculiar phenomenon about which people 
have various conceptions. Some dread it, some welcome it, 
and others are quite indifferent. 

H. §vr II 

Su. 13 . — Subham suhhadrishtiyute. 



Jaiminisutras 


161 


If the 3rd from Lagna or Karaka has beneficial 
aspects or conjunctions, death will be easy from 
slight complaints. 

NOTES 

Some have prolonged and most painful coihplaints 
before death, some have ordinary complaints and others 
have very easy deaths. 

iv. fed few^il 

Su. 14 . — Misre misrcun. 

If the 3rd from Lagna or Karaka has mixed 
aspects and conjunctions, death will be neither very 
difficult nor very easy. 

in. wiMa < i wi«m ii 

Su. 15 . — Adityena rajamoolath. 

If the 3rd from Lagna or the Karaka is con- 
nected with Ravi, death comes to the person 
through the kingly or Government displeasure. 

NOTES 

He may be hanged, confined, beheaded or executed, 
thrown into abysses from tops of forts or mountains or shot 
at the cannon’s mouth. 

H. ii 

Su. 16 . — Chandrena yakshmanah . 

If Chandra occupies or aspects the 3rd from 
Lagna or Karaka, the person will die through con- 
sumption or Tuberculosis. 



162 


Jaiminisutras 


NOTES 

Yakshma means consumption. It is no doubt a nasty 
disease, but with some it takes years to bring their ruin, 
with others it is quick and active. 

Su. 1 7 . — Kujena vranasastragnidahadyaihi. 

If Mars occupies or aspects the 3rd from Lagna 
or Karaka, the person dies by wounds, injuries, fire 
and weapons. 

NOTES 

Karaka in all these Sutras refer to Atmakaraka. Find 
out the 3rd house from Lagna or Atmakaraka Lagna, which- 
ever of these two is stronger, predict the results from it, by 
the 3rd house and the planet who is there. If Kuja is found 
there, by wounds and injuries, by weapons, by fire and by 
burning, he will meet death. Kuja is called Angaraka or one 
who robs and injures the bodily organs or Angas, Lohitanga 
or bloody planet, Ara or one who injures and burns the 
limbs. Bloody diseases and blood corruption lead to many 
painful complaints. 

%c. 5i£rt srarbrn* u 

Su. 18 .—Sanina vatarogat. 

If Sani is aspecting or combining with the 3rd 
from Lagna or Karaka, death comes through windy 
complaints. 

NOTES 

Ayurveda or Indian Medical Science mentions three 
Dhatus or characteristics for all physical constitution, viz.. 



Jaimioisutras 


163 


Vata or wind, Pitta or bile and Sleshma or phlegm. No 
disease conies when these are working in their proper pro* 
portions. But when any one of them is excited beyond its 
normal qantity, ill-health follows in various complications 
and death will result when any one or more of them are 
roused and proceed to work out of the normal conditions. 
All diseases in the Indian medicine are attributable to the 
excess or want of these in proportions. 


1 *. 


Su. 19. — Mandamandibhyam vishasarpajalod- 

bandhanadibhih. 

If the 3rd from Lagna or Karaka is occupied by 
Sani and Gulika, the person will die from the effects 
of poison, from snakes, from chains and shakles 
and from water. 


NOTES 

The latter means drowning or watery diseases like dropsy, 
diabetes, etc. 

Su. 20.— Kethuna vishucheejalarogadyaiah. 

If the 3rd from Lagna or Karaka is occupied 
or aspected by Kethu, the person dies from conta- 
geous, watery and epidemic complaints. 

NOTES 

Vishuchi is a comprehensive term and includes various 
contageous and epidemic complaints such as small-pox, 
cholera, plague, influenza, watery diseases or dropsy, 



164 


Jaiminisutras 


diabetes diarrhoea, etc. Here great margin and latitude are 
given to the student to use his brain, practical knowledge and 
the instructions he gets from his Gurus. No principles of 
sciences can be explained without sutras. These sutras are 
the pleasures of the learned and the pains of the ignorant. In 
Sanskrit adi is used often because all the events, which a 
principle governs or comprehends, cannot be explained, and 
if such an attempt is ever made, it would fill volumes after 
volumes and there would be no end to writing. A direction 
has to be shown to the intelligent student and they should 
follow the same with diligence and sometimes achieve better 
results than the original principle intended or conceived. 
Brain power has no limit. It is able to grasp, when properly 
developed and directed, the smallest and the largest objects. 

Su. 2\.—Chandramandibhyam poogamandanna- 
kabaladibhih kshanikam. 

If the 3rd from Lagna or Karaka has the con- 
junction of Chandra and Gulika, death will result 
immediately from eating hard meals, food and 
other indigestible articles. 

Su. 22. — Guruna sopharuchivimanadyaihi. 

If the 3rd from Lagna or Karaka is combined 
by Guru, the death will be caused by dropsy, 
disgust for food, melancholy and other complaints. 

NOTES 

Dropsy and swellings of the body may be caused by 
various causes. The bites of insects are often causes for 



Jaiminisntras 


165 


swellings of parts of body and through such swellings death 
may occur. 

n. » 

Su. 23 .—Sukrena mehat. 

If the 3rd is aspected or joined by Sukra from 
Lagna or Karaka, death will result from venereal 
complaints. 


NOTES 

In the flush of passions, people commit all sorts of 
sexual excesses and bring in their train a series of complicated 
and horrible diseases, some of which are loathsome, repulsive, 
horrible and excruciating. In painful tortures, the venereal 
complaints take a prominent rank and punish the offenders 
with very serious troubles and pains. 

Wrsitfrwni 11 

Su. 24. — Misremisrat. 

If the 3rd from Lagna or Karaka has the conjunc- 
tion or aspect of many planets, then the death will 
come from various diseases. 

NOTES 

Sometimes diseases are sharp and pronounced, but often 
they are complicated and throw the doctors on their wit’s ' 
ends. The noses of the medical men will have to be expanded 
before they correctly diagnose them. 

ii 

Su. 25. — Chandradrugyogannischayena. 



166 


Jaiminisutrai 


If Chandra aspects or joins the 3rd from Lagna 
or Karaka along with other planets, death is cartain 
to happen from the causes named in the previous 
sutras. 


NOTES 

In all deaths, Sani and Chandra must have a hand. 
Death means the disruption of mind from the body and mind 
is represented by Chandra. Vedas say Chandramamanaso- 
jatah. 

If there are many evil planets in the 3rd, then death 
happens under very painful circumstances. But when there 
are many benefics in the 3rd, death will happen after slight 
complaints or under easy surroundings. 

gSt: II 

Su. 26 . — Subhaihi subhadese. 

If the 3rd from Lagna or Karaka has beneficial 
aspects or conjunctions, death happens in good or 
holy places. 

NOTES 

For various reasons, too numerous to be discussed in 
short notes like these, people specially religiously inclined, 
covet death in holy places or happy surroundings. This is 
human aspiration. 

II 

Su. 27 . — Papaih keekate. 

If the 3rd from Lagna or Karaka has evil aspects 
or conjunctions, death will happen in vicious or 
sinful countries and places. 



Jaiminisutras 


167 


NOTES 

The commentators have interpreted Keekata Desa as 
Magadha and other sinful countries. When benefics are in 
the 3rd, death happens in holy places, like Kasi, Tirupalhi or 
other places held holy by the followers of different religions. 
Mohamedans hold Mecca and Medina as holy. The Chris- 
tians consider Jerusalem as holy. The Buddhists hold Gaya 
as holy. The Hindus have many places declared as holy like 
Kasi, Rameswaram, Jagannath, Haridwara, Tirupathi, etc. 
When evil planets are in ihe 3rd, death happens in vicious or 
sinful places. There are some places which are full of vices 
and sinful deeds. Death in such places will be considered 
as a great misfortune. Say a man dies, near a cess pool, in 
night soil, in gambling or whoring dens, or in dirty wells or 
dreary forests. Families, communities, religious sects, villages, 
towns, cities, countries and nations have ebbs and flows in 
their fortunes, and also in their morals and spiritualities. 

Sodom and Ganiora were destroyed on account of their abomi- 
% 

nable vices. We have also many examples of destruction of 
these by excesses in sins and vices. It will be a consolation 
to take birth in a virtuous place and in the midst of good and 
pious people. It will certainly be a misfortune to be born in 
dirty and sinful surroundings. To die in an agreeable place 
and have the ceremonies performed as per their religious 
principles will be a pleasure. To die in dirty and sinful 
places and be neglected after death or the body exposed to 
wild animals and vultures, will be a real misfortune which 
every man tries to avoid. 

11 

Su. 28 . — Gurusukrabhyam gnanapurvakam. 



168 


Jaiminisutras 


If the 3rd from Lagna or Karaka has the 
conjunction or aspect of Guru and Sukra, the 
person dies with consciousness unimpaired. 

NOTES 

The word used is Gnana. It may also mean that the 
person will die, with the full thoughts of Para Brahma in 
his mind. 

s*. «p*towrani 

Su. 29. — Anyairanyatha. 

If the 3rd from Lagna or Karaka is aspected or 
joined by other planets, unconsciousness prevails 
at death. 


NOTES 

There are some miserable people who remain uncon- 
scious before death for weeks and months together. They 
will have no holy thoughts in their heads. 

Su.' 30. — Lepanukhapormadhye sanirahuketu- 
bhihi pitrorna samskartha. 

If Sani and Rahu or Sani and Kethu are in 
conjunction between the 1st and 12 houses, the per- 
son will not perform the obsequies of his parents. 

NOTES 

Lepa 1, Khapa- 12, La denotes 3, Pa shows 1=31, 
reversed 13, divided by 12 we getl, and therefore denotes 
the Lagna or 1st house. Kha 2, Pa 1-21, reversed we get 



Jaiminisutras 


169 


12. The performance of death ceremonies for parents is 
held'as a sacred duty. If a person does not do it, he will be 
called an ungrateful wretch and generally communities out- 
cast him. 

*1. tMWWrif II 

Su. 31 . — Lepadi purmrdhe janakadyaparardhe. 

If Rahu arid Sani are found in conjunction in 
the first 6 houses from Lagna, the death ceremonies 
for the mother will not be performed. If they are 
found in the next 6 houses, viz., from 7th to 12th 
houses the ceremonies for the father will not be 
performed. 


NOTES 

Sani and Rahu or Sani and Kethu are meant here. Their 
conjunction is necessary here in the houses indicated above. 

gnwriiw II 

Su. 32. — Subhadrigyoganna. 

If Sani and Rahu or Sani and Kethu have 
beneficial aspects or conjunctions, these evil results 
should not be predicted. 

NOTES 

It means the person performs the death ceremonies 
properly to his parents. 


End of Second Pads of the Second Adhyaya. 



ADHYAYA 2-PADA 3 


? . d<t i frA<whl : II 

Su. 1 . — Vishame tadadirnavamamsah. 

If the birth falls in an odd sign, the Navamsa 
Dasas commence from it. 

NOTES 

Each Rasi Dasa contains 9 Amsas or Navamsas and each 
Rasi Dasa counts 9 years. Hence these Dasas are called 
Navamsa Dasas. Mesha, Mithuna, Simha, Thula, etc., 
are odd signs. 

II 

Su. 2 . — Anyatha darsadihi. 

In the even signs the Navamsa Dasas commence 
from the Abhimukha Rasis. • 

NOTES 

The commentators explain thus : If a movable sign is 
Lagna, then the 8th Rasi from Lagna becomes the commence- 
ment Dasa. If Lagna falls in a fixed sign the commencing 
Dasa will be the 6th Rasi from it. If Lagna falls in a 
common sign, the Dasa commences from the 7th Rasi from it. 
These are called Abhimukha Rasis and their explanations 
have been given in the earlier sutras. 



Jaiminisutras 


171 


*. frKWWwt n 

Su. 3 . — Sasinandapavakah kramadabdah sthira- 
dasayam. 

In the Sthira or fixed sign Dasa, the movable 
sign Dasa will be 7, the fixed Dasa will be 8 years 
and the Dasa of the common Rasi will extend to 
9 years. 

«. mnfifani 

Su. 4. — Brahmadiresha. 

The Sthira Dasa commences from the Rasi 
occupied by Brahma. 


NOTES 

Brahma has already been explained in Sutra 47 of 
Pada 1 of Adhyaya 2. 

HPI: || 

Su. 5 . — At ha pranah. 

Jaimini now begins to explain the strength of 
the planets and the Rasis. Prana , here as well as in 
the previous sutras, means sources of strength the 
planet and the signs get. 

Su. 6 . — Karakayogah prathamo bhanam. 

That Rasi or sign becomes the strongest, which 
has the conjunction of Atmakaraka. 



172 


Jaiminisutras 


NOTES 

This combination is supposed to give greater strength 
than even the Shadbalas recorded in the other astrological 
works. This is the primary source of strength. 

». m&t ii 

Su. 7. — Saumye bhuyasa. 

If other sources of strength are equal, then the 
conjunction of larger number of planets gives 
greater strength. 

Su. 8. — Thathastungadih. 

If these sources of strength are equal, then exal- 
tation, friendly houses, and Moolatrikonas give 
them vitality. 

II 

Su. 9. — Nisargusthuthuh. 

Then the Nisarga or permanent sources of 
strength must be considered. 

NOTES 

The chara or movable signs are weaker than Sthira 
Rasis or fixed signs. These arc weaker than the common or 
Dviswabhava Rasis. 

1«. TO: II 

Su. \Q.—Thadabhave swamina ithham bhavah . 



Jaiminisutras 173 

If the Rasi has one of the Karakadi sources of 
strength, then its power will be that which its lord 
possesses from the associations of Karaka, etc. 

NOTES 

The strength of the Rasi and the strength of its lord 
should be taken into consideration. 

n. wmnroV festorotu 

Su. 1 1 . — Agrayatto viseshath. 

According to the Jaimini Sutras the planets 
which gets the highest number of degrees among 
others will become the most powerful. 

NOTES 

This has been already explained in the earlier portion 
and the most forward planet in a Rasi becomes the Atma- 
karaka and most of the results previously named are based 
upon his position and, the relative positions of other Rasis 
and planets taken with reference to him. According to this 
work Atmakaraka supersedes all other planets in power and 
potency. 

1^. RlfiAftM*: II 

Su. 12 .— Prativesikah purushe. 

In the odd sign, it gets strength from the planets 
who occupy the 12th and 2nd from it. 

NOTES 

Planets in the 2nd and 12th from themselves or from 
the Rasis they occupy have special influences. The Rasi 



174 


Jaiminisutras 


will have Kartari Yoga, as also any planet which has on 
both sides evil planets. Good planets may cause this Yoga 
and probably the results will be beneficial. 

snw: II 

Su. 13 . — Ithi prathamah. 

The sources of strength named in the above 
sutras will be the first set of inquiry into the powers 
of a Rasi or its lord. 

iv. flrfar: u 

Su. 14 . — Swami gurugnadrigyogo dwiteeyah. 

The second set of strength for a Rasi is derived 
by the aspect of its own lord, Jupiter or Mercury. 

NOTES 

Now he names the second set of powers which a Rasi 
can command to its credit. Varahamihira observes thus 
in his Brihat Jataka : 

Horaswami Gurugnya VeeksRitayuta Nanyaischa 
Veeryolkatah. 

The Lagna or any Bhava or Rasi becomes strong when 
it has the aspect or conjunction of its lord, Guru or Budha, 
if not it will not be powerful. This stanza of Brihat Jataka 
is nothing but a slavish imitation of this sutra of Jaimini. 
The Maharishi Jaimini was the author of Paorvamimamsa 
Sutras, Jaimini Bharata and the invaluable sutras I am 
translating. He was the disciple of Veda Vyasa and was, 
therefore, contemporary of that great Maharishi. I have 
proved, by indisputable authority, that the period of Maha 
Bharata was more than 5,000 years from now. There are 



Jaiminisutras 


175 


four copper plate grants given by the Emperor Janamejaya 
the son of Parikshit and the grandson of Abhimanyu, the 
son of Arjuna, the great hero in that ruinous war and the 
recipient of the Bhagavadgita instructions from Lord 
Krishna himself and written by Veda Vyasa. Varahamihira, 
as per date given by himself in stanza 2 of his Brihat 
Samhita, Chapter 31, lived in the court of Vikramaditya 
whose Era called Samvat Nripasaka is prevalent all over 
India and counts now as 1988. Varahamihira says that he- 
borrowed all his ideas of Astronomy, Astrology and Samhita 
from the still more older writers and the above quoted of 
his stanza certainly comes from Jaimini. Any sign becomes 
strong when it has the aspect or conjunction of its lord. 
Guru or Budha. Six varieties arise from this. The lord 
aspecting or conjoining, it gives two. Similarly for the other 
two planets Guru and Budha. This is the second source or 
item of strength. Aspects and conjunctions are different. 


1H. II 

Su. 1 5. — Swaminastruteeyah. 

The third set of strength for the lord will be the 
one to be detailed below. 







II 


Su. 16 . — Swatswaminah kantakadishwaparadour- 
balyam. 

Those planets who are in Kendras, Panaparas 
and Apoklimas from the Atmakaraka become more 
and more powerless than him. 



176 


Jaiminisutrts 


NOTES 


This means those who are in the Kendras from the 
Atmakaraka are powerless. Those who are in the next 
houses from Kendras are still more feeble and those who 
occupy the next houses are worse still in power. This 
represents the 3rd source of strength. 

1». ^3$: II 

Su. 17 . — Chaturthah purushe. 

If the lord of the Rasi falling in Purusha Rasi 
(odd sign) has evil conjunctions and aspects, this 
will become the 4th source of strength to the Rasi. 






Su. 18 . — Pitrulabhaprathamapranyadi shoola- 

dasa niryane. 

Take the stronger out of the two 1st and 7th. 
Then from the stronger of these two, take the 
Shoola Dasas, viz., 1, 5 and 9. Find out which of 
these Shoola Rasis becomes the strongest. Then 
ascribe the death period to it as certain. 


fogsswgsBn'wnfo: fogs u 

Su. 19 . — Pitrulabhaputrapranyadih pituh. 

Putra 9, Pa 1, Ra 2- 12, reversed it means 21, 
divided by 12, we have the balance 9, hence the 9th 
house is meant. Take the Lagna and 7th and find out 
the 9th houses from them. Whichever is stronger in 
these two ninth houses, take that and find out their 



J aim ini sutras 


IT? 

Shoola Dasas and prescribe death to father in the 
most unfavourable of these Shoola Dasas, viz., 1, 
5 and 9. 

*«. ny t iMg s H 

Su. 20. — Adarsadirmatuh. 

Take the most powerful in 1 or 7. Take the 4th 
from it and find the Shoola Dasas from it, which- 
ever is the most powerful among the 1st, 5th or 9th 
predict death to the mother in that Dasa. 

NOTES 

Darsa 4, Da 8, Ra 2-82 reversed 28, divided by 12 we 
have the balance 4 and 4th house is meant here. 

*i. n 

Su. 21 . — Karmadirbhrathuh . 

Take the 3rd from Lagna or the 7th whichever 
is stronger, and ascribe death to brothers and sisters 
in the most powerful of the Shoola Dasas from it. 

it 

Su. 22 .—Matradirbhagineeputrayoh. 

Take the Lagna or the 7th whichever is stronger, 
and find the 5th from it. Sons and sisters will die in 
the most cruel of the Shoola Dasas from the above 
5th house. 

NOTES 

How 5th can have any connection with sisters, I cannot 
12 



178 


Jaiminisutras 


guess. But the sutra is clear and we have to take it in the 
sense he has given. 

ll 

Su. 23. — Vyayadirjaishtasya. 

Take the 11th from Lagna or 7th whichever is 
stronger, and predict death to elder brothers in the 
most unfavourable Shpola Dasa from it. 

NOTES 

The 3rd represents younger brothers and sisters and the 
11th, the elder sisters and brothers in other works on 
astrology. 

*». ii 

Su. 24. — Pitruvatpitruvarge. 

Take the stronger of the two Lagnas and the 
7th. Find out the 9th from it. From this take the 
Shoola Dasas and predict death to paternal uncles, 
etc., in the evil period among them. 

SM. StPlfij: WIT <tWIRil: II 

Su. 25. — Brahmadih purushe sama dasanthah. 

If the Lagna falls in a purusha or masculine Rasi, 
the Dasas or periods commence from the sign occu- 
pied by the Brahma. The extent of the Rasi Dasa 
is thus determined. Take the 6th from the Dasa 
Rasi. Find out the number of the house the lord of 
it occupies and that number will be the extent in 
years of that Dasa. 



Jaiminisutras 


119 


NOTES 

Dasa 6, Da 8, Sa 7-87 reversed it gives 78, divided by 
12, the balance is 6, hence the 6th house is indicated by 
this figure. 

Su. 26 . — Sthana vyathikarah. 

When the Janma Lagna falls in an odd sign, 
the Dasas commence from the Rasi occupied by 
Brahma in regular order. If the Lagna falls in an 
even sign, then the Dasas commence regularly from 
the 7th house from Brahma. 

NOTES 

This means in odd signs the Dasas commence from the 
Rasi occupied by Brahma, and in even signs the Dasas 
commence from the 7th Rasi from the sign occupied by 
Brahma. 

Su. 27. — Papadrigyogastungadigrahayogah. 

The conjunctions and aspects of malefics are a 
source of strength for the Rasis. So also is added 
another source of strength to (the Rasi) by planets 
(situated there) being in exaltation, Moolatrikona 
and very friendly and friendly houses. 

NOTES 

Jaimini now gives the fourth source of strength to the 
Rasis. The conjunctions and aspects of evil planets are a 



rso 


jiaimiflisutras 


source of strength to the Rasis. The states of such planets 
which have aspects and conjunctions in the Rasis will also 
be sources of strength, such states are exaltations, debilita- 
tions, friendly and unfriendly houses, Moolatrikonas. Bene- 
fics influence the Rasis by aspects and conjunctions when 
they are in exaltations and other favourable positions other- 
wise they do not exercise much influence, such is the opinion 
of the commentators. This is fourth source of strength. 

Su. 2S. —Panchame pada kramat prakpratyak- 
tvam. 

If the 9th from Lagna happens to be incorpo- 
rated in an odd sign take the Rasi Dasas in the 
regular order. If it happens to be incorporated in 
an even sign, take the Rasi Dasas in the inverse 
order or backwards. The commencement of the 
Dasa should be from the Lagna. Kethu in these 
cases is considered as a benefic. 

End of Third Pada of Second Adbyaya 


ADHYAYA 2-PADA 4 
1 . ffcfcfr ■qwlS It 

Su. 1 . — Dwiteeyam bhavaphalam charanavamse. 



Jaiminisutras 


191 


In the Navamsa Dasa of Chara Rasi the signifi- 
cations of the second house must be explained in 
the manner given in Sutra 14 of the previous section. 

NOTES 

All Bhavas get strength when they are aspected or con- 
joined by their lords, by Guru and by Budha. 

tpiwft SIT* II 

Su. 2 . — Dasasrayo dwaram. 

The Rasi which commences the Dasa or period 
is called the Dwara Rasi or the door for the subse- 
quent Rasi Dasas. 


NOTES 

This Dasa is called also Paka Rasi. 

*. wwhW u 

Su. 3 . — Thathastavatiiham bahyam. 

Count as many signs from Dwara Rasi as Dwara 
Rasi is removed from Lagna. This will be the Bhoga 
Rasi. 


NOTES 

He gives here the definition of what is called Bhoga Rasi, 
The commencement of Dasas is given and their differences 
in Chara, Sthira and Dviswabhava Rasis have been shown. 

The commencing Dasa falls in some sign from Lagna. 
Then count from that Rasi to a similar number and this will 
be the Bahya Dasa or Bhoga Dasa. Suppose the common- 



182 


Jaiminiiutm 


cing Dasa falls in Mesha for a person whose Lagna is Dhanus. 
Then it will be Sth from it. Mesha Dasa becomes the Paka 
or Dwara Dasa and the Sth from it, viz., Simha becomes the 
Bahya or Bhoga Dasa. Some commentators explain thus : 
If Mesha begins as the Dasa of the first sign, then counting 
one from it, the Bhoga Dasa or the second begins in Mesha 
alone. Then the second Dasa begins in Vrishabha which 
will be called Paka Dasa, and the second from it Mithuna 
becomes Bhoga Dasa. The third Dasa commences in Mithuna 
and it becomes Paka Dasa. The third from it, viz., Simha 
becomes the Bhoga Dasa, Kataka becomes the 4th Dasa and 
becomes Paka, while the 4th from it, viz., Thula becomes 
Bhoga Dasa. In this way Dasas must be calculated till the 
last Dasa, which ends the man’s existence and kills him. 

I think I have made the meaning very clear and simple. 

v. ii 

Su. 4 ,—Tayoh pape bandharogadi. 

If evil planets are found in the Paka and Bhoga 
signs, the person will suffer from imprisonment, 
chains, diseases and other mental and physical 
troubles. 

Su. 5 . — Swarksheasya thasminnopajeevasya. 

If the evil planets in the two Rasis happen to be in 
their own houses or are very close to Guru, then the 
evil results foretold in Sutra 4 will not happen. 

staffed it 

Su. 6 . — Bhagrahayogoktam sanamasmin. 



Jaiminisutrat 


183 


The results in these Dasas will have to be 
foretold, by the strength of the planets and by the 
sources of strength and weakness of the Paka and 
Bhoga Rasis. 

NOTES 

These hints are to be taken not only here but throughout 
the whole work. Suppose there are evil planets in debilita- 
tion or without nearness to Guru. 

1. These two Rasis have exalted evil planets. 

2. There are beneficial planets with malefics. 

3. There are pure benefics. 

4. Benefics in exaltation. 

5. Benefics in debilitation. 

In all such cases, the results will certainly be, and must 
be different. The strength of the Rasis must also be carefully 
considered. Then again, in the Rasi extending over 30 
degrees the strength and weakness of the Rasi will not be 
uniform. There is a radical difference between the general 
astrologers and Jaimini Maharishi. All the astrological works 
have their foundations laid in the writings of the Maharishis. 
They alone were able to see the differences in planetary globes, 
their influences on each other and the wonderful ways by 
which they indicated the results of the karma to the credit 
of the person at the time of his birth. Jaimini gives great 
prominence to the planet who has advanced the largest number * 
of degrees in a Rasi and calls him Atmakaraka. The 
Navamsa he occupies plays a prominent place in the 
delineation of characteristics and results. But in the Deeptadi 
Avasthas, the planet who is in the last Navamsa of a Rasi gets 
Peeda Avastha or the state of humiliation. No great prominence 



184 


Jaiminisutrsi 


is attached to him and on the other hand he becomes weak 
and powerless. Difference of opinion among the various 
authors are found in large numbers. Take medicine, philosophy, 
religion, war, law, speculation and even the so-called most 
exact science, mathematics. Here one plus one becomes two 
and one and one both minus becomes two. We give a separate 
value for plus and minus. To reach a place there may be one 
thousand and one ways. The differences in all these will 
have to be carefully considered and reconciled. Approaching 
from different places and directions and experiments and 
experiences, two or more persons may reach the same 
destination or results. A simple illustration will convince us 
about the truth of these observations. A, B and C are each 
worth one lakh of rupees. By whatever means they may have 
acquired that wealth, the result is the same, and the money 
power of one lakh lies with each of them. Take half a dozen 
warriors of exactly equal physical and mental capacities. 
Each may have taken different food, born in different 
conditions, and brought up under different circumstances, 
but the results are one and the same. Similarly in astrological 
sciences. Different Maharishis pursued different methods 
and found out the identical results though those results were 
produced from apparently different causes. The solar, 
planetary and stellar radiations are working through the 
various degrees of the zodiacal signs in mysterious ways. 

SU. 7. — Pitrulabhapranithoyam- 
These results have to be carefully predicted 
from Lagna or the 7th, whichever is the stronger of 
the two. For males preference should be given to 



Jaiminisutras 


189 


Lagna and for females the 7th should be preferred 
provided it is strong. 

X . II 

Su. 8 .—Prathame prakprathyaktvam. 

If the Dasa commences with a movable sign or 
Chandra Rasi, then the order of the Rasi Dasas 
will be regular in a horoscope. 

Su. 9 . — Dwiteeye ravitah. 

If the Dasa commences in the fixed sign or 
Sthira Rasi, then the 6th and 7th, etc., from it will 
be the successive Dasas. 

NOTES 

These are called Padakrama Dasas. Pada as we know 
already means the number of a Rasi, again counted from 
the Lagna or any othpr Bhava. 

Ravi 6, Ra 2, Va 4;= 24 inverted, 42, divided by 12, we 
have the balance of 6, and hence the 6th, the 6th from it 
and the 6th from it and so on. 

Su, 10 . — Pruthakramena thriteeye chatushtayadi. 

If the Dasa Rasi commences in a common sign, 
then the successive Rasi Dasas will be determined 
by the Kendra, Pannnnra and Anoklima Rasis from 
it. 



IS* 


Jaiminisutrai 


11. w lw r WWh 

Su. 11 . — Swakendrasthadyah swamino navam- 
sanam. 

Those who are in Kendras, Panaparas and 
Apoklimas from the Karaka become the lords of 
the Navamsa Dasas. 

NOTES 

Here we have to take the planets first in Kendras 
according to their strength, then those who are in Panapara 
and last those who are in Apoklimas. 

1*. ffcret: II 

Su. \2.—Pitruchatushtayavaishambalasrayah 
sthitah. 

Those Rasis which are in Kendras from Lagna 
furnish the first Dasa. 

NOTES 

Suppose there are many, then that sign which becomes 
strong by the various combinations and aspects explained in 
the previous sutras, becomes the first Rasi Dasa. The Dasa 
years are 9 for each of the Rasis. 

i*. a uwmtora&l ii 

Su. 13 . — Sa tallabhayoravartate. 

The Karaka will be moving between the Lagna 
and the 7th. 

NOTES 

We have to find him from Lagna or the 7th whichever 



Jaiminisutras 


117 


is stronger, and count backwards or forwards as the Rasi he 
occupies is even or odd. Then he gives the Dasa years as are 
counted from Lagna or the 7th, taking the Dasa always by 
the larger number he obtains. This is the extent of Karaka 
Dasa in years. For other planets, count the number from 
them to the Karaka, in the forward or backward reckoning 
and ascribe such number of years to the planets. 

i*. w nrnra; n 

Su. 14 . — Swamibalaphalani cha pragvath. 

The results of all these will be determined, as 
detailed in the previous sutras, by the examination 
of the sources of strength and weakness to the 
planets, to the lords of the Dasas and to the Rasis. 

NOTES 

Jaimini has given various sources of strength and weak- 
ness to the planets in general, to the Rasis or signs and to 
the lords of the Dasas. He advises his readers to take these 
into careful consideration and having regard to times, circum- 
stances and places, predict the results, so that they may turn 
out correct and to the point. 

in. n 

Su. 15 . — Sthuladarsa vaishamyasrayo manduka ■ 
strikutah. 

As the Manduka or frog jumps from place to 
place, the two systems of Dasas named by Jaimini 
in the previous sutras, viz., Kendra, Panapara and 
Apoklima, and the movable, fixed and double 



88 


Jaiminisutrai 


bodied signs, also jump from house to house and 
hence he calls them Manduka Dasas. 

NOTES 

As per instructions given in the previous chapters, the 
Dasas both for planets and Rasis, jump from Kendras to 
Panaparas and from the latter to Apoklimas. Similarly 
they jump from Charas to Sthiras and from Sthiras to 
Dwiswabhavas. They also jump in Shoola Dasas. 

U. q;<gy ri a& n 

Su. 16 . — Niryanalabhadi shooladasa phale. 

In predicting results, the 7th from the Niryana- 
shoola Dasa should be taken into first account. 

NOTES 

Shoola Dasas are marked as death inflicting. Take the 
7th from the most powerful of these Niryana Rasis and begin 
to make predictions from it. This Niryanashoola is of many 
kinds. Rudrashoola, Maheswarashoola and Brahmashoola. 

1®. 5^ tarns It 

Su. 17 . — Purushe samah samanyatah. 

If the Arambha or commencing Dasa falls in 
Purusha Rasi or masculine sign, then the subsequent 
Rasi Dasas will be counted regularly and each Dasa 
gets 9 years only. 

NOTES 

If the commencing Dasa falls in a feminine sign, then 
the subsequent Dasas have to be counted from the 7th sigh 



Jaiminisutras 


189 


from it. In masculine horoscopes the Arambha Dasa 
commences from Lagna. In feminine horoscopes it com- 
mences from the 7th. 

Su. 18 . — Siddha ududaye. 

Dasas, counted from the constellations at birth, 
have to be leafned and taken from Parasara, Gargi, 
Vyasa and other well-known writers. 

NOTES 

Jaimini says he has not given them in his work because 
they can be learnt from other works and the Dasa periods 
will be as they are given there. We have 27 constellations 
and they have to be counted from Krittika. 


Krittika — Ravi Dasa 


Years 

6 

Rohini — Chandra Dasa 


10 

Mrigasira— -Kuja „ 


7 

Aridra — Rahu „ 


18 

Punarvasu — Guru „ 


16 

Pushyami — Sani „ 


19 

Aslesha— Budha 


17 

Makha— Kethu „ 


7 

Pubba — Sukra ,, 


20 

Then from star Uttara repeat the same 

planetary Dasa 


with the same number of years. These are called Udu Dasas, 
from Udu meaning a constellation or star. Jaimini has made 
no reference before to constellations. He mentions them only 
in this sutra. Thus each planet gets 3 stars, with the same 
number of years. He uses the word Siddha meaning ready 
from other works well known in the world. 



190 


Jaixninisutimi 


swwgW *binl u 

Su. 19 . — Jagattasthushorardham yogardhe. 

The extent of Yagardhadasa will be half of the 
two Dasas combined from the Chara and Sthira 
Rasis. 


NOTES 

The Yogardhadasa will have to be stronger of the two 
Rasis, Lagna and the Saptama or the 7th. 

Su. 20 .— Sthuladarsa vaishamyasrayametat. 

Yogardhadasa begins either from Lagna or the 
7th house whichever is stronger. 

NOTES 

The sources of strength and weakness have been clearly 
explained in the previous pages. Yogardhadasa commences 
from the stronger of the two Lagna and the 7th. If the Rasi 
which commences the Dasa be odd, then, take the subsequent 
Dasas in the regular order. If it is even then count the 
Dasas backwards. Sthula - Lagna or 1 — Tha 7, la 3-73, 
reversed 37, divided by 12, we get 1 or Lagna. ' 

*1. n 

Su. 21 .—Kujadi strikuta padakramena drigdasa. 

Drigdasas are formed commencing with the 9th 
from Lagna, according to trikonarupa pada. 



Jaiminisutras 


191 


NOTES 

Jaimini now speaks about Drigdasa. Kuja*=9, Ka 1, 
Ja 18, reversed 81, divided by 12, we get 9. Take the 3 
houses from the Arambha Rasi, or commencing Rasi, viz., 
2nd, 5th and 9th from the 2nd, the 4th and the 5th and 9th 
from the 4th, these three sets of combinations from the 
Arambha Dasa or the commencing sign form what is 
technically called Drigdasa.. 

snqwfcft: i> *wi 

Su. 22 & 23 .— Matrudharmayoh samanyam 
vipareethamojakutayoh . Yatha samanyam. 

Those born in even signs will have the results 
as described in the previous sutras about the 
Trikona Dasa. 


NOTES 

Matru means 5. Dharma signifies 11. Ma 5, Ta 6 = 56, 
reversed it will be 65, divided by 12, we have the remainder 5. 
Dha 9, Ma 5=95, reversed, we get 59, divided by 12, we have 
the balance 11 ; counting from 5th and 11th is considered as 
samanyam or ordinary, counting from odd and even signs is 
called Vyutkrama or special or peculiar. 

*». fapnq; II 

Su. 24 . — Pitrumatru dharmapranyadistrikone. 
Among the Trikonas, the Rasi Dasa commences 
with the strongest among them. 

NOTES 

lie Trikonas are 1, 5 and 9. 



192 


Jaiminisutras 


v*. to srcwnnwrt 

Su. 25 . — Tatra dwarabahyabhyam tadwat. 

The results which have been ascribed to Dwara- 
bahya Rasis should also be predicted to the Trikona 
Dasas. 

NOTES 

If the Paka and Bhoga Rasis are aspected or joined by evil 
planets, the person will suffer from diseases, chains, imprison- 
ments, etc., similar results have to be predicted for Trikona 
Dasas when they have evil aspects and conjunctions. Care- 
fully read my notes on Sutra 3 of pada four, on Paka and 
Bhoga Rasis and the different views explained by the 
commentators. Dwara and Bahya Rasis are Paka and Bhoga 
Rasis respectively. 

»K551^T: II 

Su. 26 . — Dhasagairikatpaineekaratkarakaih 
phaladesah. 

Results must be predicted from the Karakas or 
lords of events and also from the first, third, seventh 
and the ninth Rasis. 


NOTES 

About the person himself, the results must be predicted 
from the Atmakaraka, from the 7th about elder and younger 
brothers and sisters, virtue and charities. These are well- 
known principles in the other works on Astrology. 

9HI<*.Ul Uplift II 

Su. 27. — Tararkamse mandaaadyo dasesah. 



Jaiminisutras 


193 


Divide the birth constellation into twelve equal 
parts corresponding to twelve signs and find out to 
which division the time of birth corresponds. The 
lord of the Rasi corresponding to this division 
becomes the lord of the commencing Dasa. 

NOTES 

Take the constellation of the day of the birth and divide 
the whole duration of the star by 12. Find out in which 
division the ghatika of birth falls from the Lagna. Then 
count the Dasa from that as per rules already given in the 
previous sutras. The Dasas here also must be given as 9 
years for each Rasi. Here the meaning is not very clear. 
I understand thus : Janma Lagna falls in some Rasi as a 
matter of fact. Take the whole duration of the star, and 
divide it by 12. Then the birth Lagna falls in one of these 
12 divisions. The lord of that Rasi becomes the lord of the 
commencing Dasa. These Dasa« have to be counted forwards 
and backwards in odd and even signs. The sutra may also be 
interpreted like this : A is born at 14 ghatis after sunrise on 
the 20th of Kumbha. The balance of Kumbha Rasi at sunrise 
will be 1£ ghatis. I am only giving a rough example. 

Kumbha is l jj ghatis. 

Meena and Mesha run for 8 ghatis. This makes 9$ ghatis. 
Add Vrishabha 4 \ ghatis. Thus 14 ghatis will conclude- 
Vrishabha and the person is bom in the end of Vrishabha. 
Say the full extent of the star Bharani is 60 ghatis on that 
day after sunrise. Divided by 12, we get for each part 5 
ghatis. Janmakala ghatis fall in the 3rd division and the 3rd 


13 



194 


Jaiminisutras 


Rasi from Lagna, viz.. Kataka may be taken as the commen- 
cing Rasi Dasa . This is taken with reference to Chandra 
and hence called Chandra Dasa. I am very diffident about 
this explanation. 

sft% 9T sffeTO: II 

Su. 28 . — Tasminnuchhe neeche va shreemantah. 

If, in the example given in the above sutra, the 
lord of the Rasi Dasa is in exaltation or debilitation, 
the person becomes wealthy and influential. 
wfagJl ii 

Su. 29.— Swamitrabhe kinchit. 

If, in such a Lagna, its lord occupies a friendly 
sign, the wealth will be moderate. 

*». ^ratsqwiu 

Su. 30. —Dugalhoaparatha. 

If the lord of Lagna above mentioned is not as 
stated previously, the person becomes poor and 
wretched. 

NOTES 

This will be when he is debihtaied, combined or aspected 
by maletics and is found in unfriendly houses. 

*1. ignhrwt to i msapaft ii 

Su. 31 . — Swavaishamye yathaswam kramavyuth- 
kramau. 

If the Karaka occupies the odd sign, then 
proceed for the- subsequent Dasas in the regular 



Jaiminisutras 


195 


way, but when he is in an even sign, then go back- 
wards for the Rasi Dasas. 

NOTES 

He has repeated this idea already in several sutras and 
1 suppose he wants to emphasize the principal point which 
differs from other astrological principles. 

ii 

Su. 32.— Saumye vipareetam. 

If the Karaka Rasi falls in even signs, then 
count backwards. 


NOTES 

This is just opposed to the above sutra, where he refers 
to the planet and here he refers to the Rasi. 

ai rc ra ft wra* it 

Su. 33. — Thathatsanavapi veditavyamityeke 
acharya vadanti. 

Some Acharyas say that all the results which 
have been ascribed to planets and signs in the 
previous sutras may also be predicted with reference 
to Sani and his position. 

NOTES 

If this sutra is of Jaimini, it speaks eloquently to some 
facts. Previous to Jaimini, Maharishis existed and wrote 
works on astrology and expounded principles, with some of 
which Jaimini is not in agreement. Jaimini was a contem- 
porary of Vedavyasa and hence he lived more than 5,000 



196 


Jaiminisutras 


years ago. This proves the great antiquity of sutras and 
also about Indian Astrology including astronomy and other 
kindred sciences. Crooked theories, ascribing to Indian 
sciences centuries after A.D., may safely be lodged in the 
perverted brains of their authors. 

V*. II 

Su. 34. — Anturbhuktyamsayoretat. 

These details above mentioned in the various 
sutras should also be ascribed to the Antardasas 
or sub-periods among the major Dasas in the for- 
ward and backward countings. 

Vs. 9m vtn 3*13^ 11 

Su. 35 . — Shubha clasa shubhayute dhamnyuchhe 
va. 

If the Rasi has beneficial aspects and conjunc- 
tions, or if its lord has similar sources of strength 
or is exalted, then all the results will be beneficial. 

NOTES 

The person will prosper in every way during the portion 
of such Rasis of lords. But otherwise he will suffer. 

b H. ««raTS»WT II 

Su. 36. — Anyathanyatha. 
k When the above conditions are not present, the 

kramt l ts c l u * te contrar y- 
If NOTES 

proc When Rasis are evil, when they base evil aspects or 



Faiminisutras 


197 


conjunctions, when debilitated planets occupy the Rasis or 
when their lords are debilitated, the beneficial results will be 
absent, and malicious results will trouble the person. 

*». It 

Su. 37. — Siddhamanyat . 

Jaimini says that all the principles explained in 
this work are truth propounded in other works and 
therefore they hold good in all calculations and 
predictions. 

End of Fourth Pada of Second Adhyaya. 


- — 1 




SHORT SKETCH* OF THE LIFE OF 

B. SURYANARAIN RAO 


It is but right, that my history should find a place in my 
translations and books. 1 belong to the Mulakanadu sect of 
tha Andhra Community of Brahmins, and have the Gotra of 
the Venerable Vasishta, the revered family Guru of Sri Rama 
and the Solar line of monarchs. Vasishta, Parasara, Vyasa 
and Suka are my first progenitors. My grandfather was a 
military officer under Hyder and Tippu and changed the 
career to civil in his later life. Venkataramaniah, my 
grandfather, was born in 1747 and died in 1828. He lost his 
first wife Narasamma in his 59th year and married my grand- 
mother Naranamma of Hegganahalli in his 60th year and 
got 7 children from her — two daughters and five sons of whom 
my father Gopala Rao was the 3rd son. My father was 
born on Friday 17th July 1816, the 10th Lunar day of the 
dark half of the month Asfiadha in the Cyclic year Dhatu 
at 15 ghatis after sunrise under the constellation Bharani 
with the period of Venus and he was only 12 years old when 
his father died. My father was of slender build, energetic, 
strong and extremely active in work, qualities which I have 
inherited to a large extent. My mother Rukminamma, the, 
daughter of Palamanda Subba Rao Pantulu, was 
an intelligent, handsome and quiet going lady and died in 
her 39th year, when I was about 13 years old. My father 

* This sketch was written by Professor Rao in 1933 and it is published 
without any alterations. 



200 


Jaiminisutras 


could speak and read about ten languages, and filled various 
posts in the Ganjam District, Northern Circars, and finally 
became Manager or Dewan of Parlakimidi or Chinnakimidi 
Zamindari as it is called now. He was an expert in Mantra* 
sastras, and highly religious and obliging. He would never 
flinch from doing an obligation and brought me up with 
great love and care. The following is his horoscope. His 



Moon 

Rahu 

Budha 




Sukra 

Ravi 


R AS! 


Sani 



Kuja 


Kcthu 

Lagna 

Guru 



tapobala was so great that with a blade of grass he was able 
to stop about 1,000 cattle and about 30 or 35 cow*herds 
under the Maha Astra of Sanmohana. All the cattle and 
men lost their consciousness, and after an hour of trial they 
began to move as if nothing had happened, when my father 
threw away the blade of grass. Mark the positions of planets 
in all the Kendras. In addition to his onerous duties, he 
completed the gigantic task of finishing with his own hand, 
one crore and twenty*five lacs of Sri Ramanamas. and 
concluded the religious rites connected with them four 
months before his death. Guru in Lagoa and Sukra and 
Ravi in the 10th made him a wonderful man in Mantra* 




Jaiminisutras 


201 


sastras and he used to perform miracles when he liked. He 
died in his 76th year on the morning of the 27th August 1891, 
and was therefore 75 years and 40 days old according to 
English calculations. 

My mother had some abortions and the advice of a 
sadhu in Chicacole, after the performance of severe remedies 
he had four daughters and two sons, myself being the 
younger son. My elder brother Jagannatha Row entered 
the Mysore service and retired as an Amildar or Tahsildar 
and died in December 1915. I was born on Tuesday, Ratha- 
saptami in Magha of the .Cyclic year Rakshasa, on 12th 
February 1856, at about 14 ghatis after sunrise or midnoon 
at Chicacole in the Ganjam District and the following is my 
horoscope. 


( 

Chandra 

Rahu 

Lagna 

Sani 


Lagna 

Guru 

Rahu 


Ravi 

Budba 

Guru 

RASI 

Diagram 



NAVAMSA 

Diagram 






Sukra 


Kuja 

Kethu 


Budha 

Kethu 

Ravi 

Sukra 

Sani 

Kuja 

Chan- 

dra 


After my birth my father wanted to give me the name 
of his father Venkataramaniah, but it appears, on the fourth 
day I became seriously ill and in the night God Surya or the 
Sun appeared to my father in a dream and ordered my father 
to name me as Suryanaraina, as I was born at midnoon on the 














202 


Jairainisutras 


Rathasaptami, a day held sacred to the Sun and the Moon 
all over India. About 4 miles from Chicacole there is a village 
called Arasavalli, where there is a complete temple to the 
Sun God and which is considered a sacred shrine by the 
neighbouring people. My father most gladly accepted the 
altered name and to his surprise and that of my good mother, 
I was alright on the 5th day of my birth. My father was called 
Gopala Row. He completed 125 lacs of Ramanamas with his 
own hand and died on Gokulashtami held sacred to 
Sri Krishna and my mother was called Rukmini, the name of 
the sacred wife of Krishna. At . 12 o’clock in the noon, the 
Sun is most powerful and the time goes under the special 
name of Abhijin Muhurtha, and Abhijit Sarva Dashagfmam or 
that noon time which cuts and cures all evil influences. A 
notable incident occurred to me in my 5th year, which has 
influenced all my life to a considerable extent. My first 
Aksharabhyasa or beginning of education began in my 5th 
year at Parlakimidi where my father was Dewan to the Raja. 

On that memorable night, I slept with my father, and had 
a wonderful dream. I was taken to Sufyaloka to the presence 
of the glorious Sun, and made to sit on his lap. His spouse 
Chayadevi gave me Payasam (wheat preparation with milk 
and sugar) and some fruits and made me eat them. After 
showing great love and kindness Surya put his hands on my 
head, patted me on my back and pronounced the blessing, 
that I would live long, have many children, become a learned 
and great man, would write many books and become an 
author, events which have been most wonderfully verified. I 
am now in my *77th year,, with a brain as clear and vigorous 
as it was when I was 30 or 35 years, and I have completed 67 

•This was written in 19J3 A.O.— Editor. 



Jaiminisutras 


203 


books on various subjects, including my History of Vijaya- 
nagar or The Never-To-Be-Forgotten Empire. I awoke and 
related my dream to my father, who had already anticipated 
some idea of my future greatness. 

In my boyish days I was extremely intelligent, and 
possessed an admirable memory, coupled with a strong and 
piercing intellect. But as it often happens with intelligent 
boys, I was irregular in attendance at school, careless of my 
studies, fond of running, jumping and other athletic exercises, 
and was mischievous to a considerable extent. All the while 
I felt I would become a great man and a scholar, and even 
challenged my teachers with this idea when they found fault 
with my irregular attendance and want of attention to my 
lessons. While I was in the Senior B. A. class, in the Central 
College at Bangalore, Mr. J. Cook, M.A., Principal, rebuked 
me for want of attention to studies and for not copying notes, 
which he gave us copiously. I was ready with my imperti- 
nent answer. I observed in a determined tone that copying 
notes forms the part of dull headed students, and superficial 
teachers and that bright students, like myself, need no such 
process. He remarked that he was a student and amanuensis 
of Dr. Bain of Psychological fame and that I should obey 
him. I told him that I would become a greater man, than 
both of them, with the result that I was turned out of the 
class for a day. Mr. Cook was a generous Scotch gentleman. 
He sent for me next day and questioned me whether my 
behaviour was right. 

I replied that his treatment of students should be diffe- 
rent as the intelligent and spirited could not bear calmly 
remarks which dull boys consider as their inheritance. Both 
being frank the reconciliation was quick and smooth. When 



204 


Jaiminisutras 


I met him 20 years after publishing some of my works, 
specially the History of Vijayanagar or The Never-To-Be 
Forgotten Empire, he had the nobility to address me as a 
greater man than himself, while 1 modestly acknowledged his 
valuable instructions as the basis for all my scholarship in 
English and physical Sciences. 1 was intended to take up 
the legal line and finished my legal studies, and practised for 
about 9 years as a Lawyer in Bellary. I kept up a decent 
establishment, and my house was open to all classes of 
professional experts, the musicians, the Veena-men, the 
learned pandits, the religious yogis, the vedaritists, the jug- 
lers, buffoons and other artistes would flock to my place. 

My astrological instincts were stirred up by Thogaray 
Ramasastry at Bangalore while I was in the F.A. class. I 
picked up my knowledge in this science by reading books on 
this subject. I had no high opinion for English astrological 
publications and never cared to read them. There is neither 
depth nor inquiry, nor research in them. My first work on 
astrology appeared in a dialect form, English and Kannada, 
in 1882. My collegiate studies gave, me no leisure for 
progress in my astrological researches and my Astrological 
Self Instructor first appeared in 1892, the second, in 1898, and 
the 3rd in 1900, the interval being taken up by my legal 
practice. Fourth, fifth, sixth and seventh followed at longer 
intervals.-' An Oriya astrologer, in Parlakimidi by name 
Brahma, soon after my birth, foretold my future greatness. 
I feel I am under the direct grace of the glorious Sun at 
every important turn in my life, and his presence in the 10th 
house from my Lagna, and 11th from Chandra, with Budha 
and Guru has inspired me to hold the view that I am destined 



Jaiminisutras 


205 


to become a great man and write valuable works, on a 
variety of interesting and instructive subjects. 

I first married my maternal uncle’s daughter by name 
Bbagiratamma and she bore ten children, of whom five 
died and *five are living. My father-in-law Palamonda 
Punchanatha Row an Assistant Commissioner in the 
Mysore Service, earned a very good name as an officer. He 
died 21 years ago. After the death of my first wife in 1903, 

I married again Subbamma, daughter of Venkatramasastry. 
She bore 5 children, two of whom died soon after birth. I 
have now two daughters and one son by her. I have now 
21 grandchildren and one great grandchild. 1 have built a 
spacious bungalow at the side of a village named Hunsamarana- 
halli on the Nandi Road, 12 miles due north of Bangalore. 
It contains 3 acres of compound, planted with varieties of 
fruit and flower trees. I have kept up a decent establishment 
with ten servants, and am leading a quiet, honorable and 
religious life. My birthdays are celebrated on a grand scale, 
and I am visited by all classes, creeds and nationalities of 
people from all parts of the world and my home is open to 
my friends and relations. My eldest son Nanjunda Row 
helps me in my publication business. My second son 
B. Lakshminarayana Row, B.A., is a Graduate of Philosophy 
and Logic and is an Inspector of Schools in the Mysore 
Service. My third son, Somasekhara Row, was adopted by 
my late brother. My fourth son Chandrasekhara Row, aged 13 
years, is studying here. My grandson, B. V. Raman, has 
been trained by me and he is helping me in the editing of 
The Astrological magazine and other books. Three 
daughters are married and happily settled in life. I have one 


*Now only one is living. 



206 


Jaiminisutras 


little daughter aged II, to marry yet. God has been 
graciously pleased to keep me above want and in compara- 
tively good health for my advanced age. 

Though my earnings have been great, my expenses have 
not been small. I possess generous instincts and always 
take delight in helping others when my aid is needed. Iam 
an admirer of all talents in any form in any man and my 
company is pleasant and instructive. I may be called a 
jolly hearted fellow, as I never take miseries in a miserable 
light. I possess fluent powers of speech and writing in almost 
equal degrees and this rare gift I attribute to the special 
grace of the Goddess of learning Saraswathi. I always pray 
to Her devoutly and get my promptings through Her Divine 
Grace. My familiarity with Western and Eastern Sciences 
gives me great advantage to lead the people wherever I may 
be. 1 am a great lover of music and other fine arts, and my 
residence is generally kept in a fashionable manner. I have 
had audiences with Viceroys, Governors and Maharajas and 
all of them were pleased with my behaviour, spirit of indepen- 
dence and capacity in conversation and arguments. I have had 
suitable khillats and presents from many Maharajas and 
aristocrats and the National and individual predictions, I 
made about wars, famines, deaths of royal personages, 
plagues, epidemics and other phenomena have been remark- 
ably fulfilled and these facts are well known to the public, 
who are in touch with my works. I predicted about the 
great Anglo-German War, and the nations who would be 
involved in its deadly folds, six months before the war, in 
my March Magazine for 1914, and said, that the war would 
begin in August of that year. My lectures, conversations 
and works have been highly appreciated by the cultured 



Jaiminisutras 


207 


public. I have been leading a religious life, in this age of 
false allurements, of false civilisation and of false professions 
and have felt strongly in my innermost heart that God 
protects all those, who entirely, sincerely and honestly place 
their faith and confidence in Him. My own independent life 
is a great illustration of that principle, which lays down 
complete devotion to God and honest and sincere life under 
His gracious and omnipotent guidance should be the highest 
ideal for human efforts. May He shower His choicest 
Blessings on all and make the world happy, cheerful and 
peaceful, have been my earnest daily prayers to the Almighty. 
The aphorism, so beautifully and aptly ordained on every 
holy Brahmin after his Pujas are over, deserves to be repro- 
duced here for the benefit of my readers ; “Swasti Praja- 
bhyah Paripalayamntam Nyayena Margena Maheem Mahisah ; 
Gobrahmanebhyassubhamastu Nityam, Lokassamastah Sukhino 
Bhavantu ; Kaley Varshantu Parjanyah Prilhvisasyasalinee ; 
Desoyam Kshobharahitaah Brahmanah Santu Nirbhayaha; 
Aputrah Putrinah Santu Putrinassantu Poutrinah ; Adaanah 
Sadhanassantu Jeevanti Saradassatam. ” Liberally translated 
the verse means— let all the people live in happiness, let the 
rulers be just and sympathetic in their rule, let the milky 
cows and Brahmins be blessed everyday, let all the worlds 
enjoy perfect happiness, let seasonal rains enrich the lands, 
let earth be productive, let the countries enjoy freedom from 
epidemics, let Brahmins attend to their prayers without 
any*Tear from evil minded people, let those who have no 
children beget children, let those who have no grandchildren 
be blessed with grandchildren, let those who have no money, 
get money and let all people live till they are one hundred 
years old. This is a prayer, as tolerant, as honest, as 



208 


Jaiminisutras 


broad-minded and as sympathetic as possible and when 
really good men send these prayers constantly to God with 
faith and devotion they will never go in vain. 


Paper used for printing this book was made available by the 
Government of India at concessional rate 



