This  is  a  digital  copy  of  a  book  that  was  preserved  for  generations  on  library  shelves  before  it  was  carefully  scanned  by  Google  as  part  of  a  project 
to  make  the  world's  books  discoverable  online. 

It  has  survived  long  enough  for  the  copyright  to  expire  and  the  book  to  enter  the  public  domain.  A  public  domain  book  is  one  that  was  never  subject 
to  copyright  or  whose  legal  copyright  term  has  expired.  Whether  a  book  is  in  the  public  domain  may  vary  country  to  country.  Public  domain  books 
are  our  gateways  to  the  past,  representing  a  wealth  of  history,  culture  and  knowledge  that's  often  difficult  to  discover. 

Marks,  notations  and  other  marginalia  present  in  the  original  volume  will  appear  in  this  file  -  a  reminder  of  this  book's  long  journey  from  the 
publisher  to  a  library  and  finally  to  you. 

Usage  guidelines 

Google  is  proud  to  partner  with  libraries  to  digitize  public  domain  materials  and  make  them  widely  accessible.  Public  domain  books  belong  to  the 
public  and  we  are  merely  their  custodians.  Nevertheless,  this  work  is  expensive,  so  in  order  to  keep  providing  this  resource,  we  have  taken  steps  to 
prevent  abuse  by  commercial  parties,  including  placing  technical  restrictions  on  automated  querying. 

We  also  ask  that  you: 

+  Make  non-commercial  use  of  the  files  We  designed  Google  Book  Search  for  use  by  individuals,  and  we  request  that  you  use  these  files  for 
personal,  non-commercial  purposes. 

+  Refrain  from  automated  querying  Do  not  send  automated  queries  of  any  sort  to  Google's  system:  If  you  are  conducting  research  on  machine 
translation,  optical  character  recognition  or  other  areas  where  access  to  a  large  amount  of  text  is  helpful,  please  contact  us.  We  encourage  the 
use  of  public  domain  materials  for  these  purposes  and  may  be  able  to  help. 

+  Maintain  attribution  The  Google  "watermark"  you  see  on  each  file  is  essential  for  informing  people  about  this  project  and  helping  them  find 
additional  materials  through  Google  Book  Search.  Please  do  not  remove  it. 

+  Keep  it  legal  Whatever  your  use,  remember  that  you  are  responsible  for  ensuring  that  what  you  are  doing  is  legal.  Do  not  assume  that  just 
because  we  believe  a  book  is  in  the  public  domain  for  users  in  the  United  States,  that  the  work  is  also  in  the  public  domain  for  users  in  other 
countries.  Whether  a  book  is  still  in  copyright  varies  from  country  to  country,  and  we  can't  offer  guidance  on  whether  any  specific  use  of 
any  specific  book  is  allowed.  Please  do  not  assume  that  a  book's  appearance  in  Google  Book  Search  means  it  can  be  used  in  any  manner 
anywhere  in  the  world.  Copyright  infringement  liability  can  be  quite  severe. 

About  Google  Book  Search 

Google's  mission  is  to  organize  the  world's  information  and  to  make  it  universally  accessible  and  useful.  Google  Book  Search  helps  readers 
discover  the  world's  books  while  helping  authors  and  publishers  reach  new  audiences.  You  can  search  through  the  full  text  of  this  book  on  the  web 


at|http  :  //books  .  google  .  com/ 


waa^'  .  i^ 


HARVARD  COLLEGE 
LIBRARY 


Bought  from  the  Fund  for 

Current  Modern  Poetry 

given  by 

MORRIS  GRAY 


CLASS  or  1877 


/•I " 


mn 


J 


,Y 


^; 


,1 


•■*:.v  / 


AN 

I 

INTRODUCTION  TO  ASTROLOGY : 
WILLIAM  LILLY: 


« 


NUBfEBOUS  EMENDATIONS,  ADAPTED  TO  THE  IMPBOVED  STATE, 
OF  THE  SCIENCE  IN  THE  PRESENT  DAY: 

GRAMMAR   OF   ASTROLOGY, 


TABLES  FOR  CALCULATING  NATIVITIES. 


ZADKIEL. 

^'LONDON: 
H.  G.  BOHN,  YORK  STREET,  COVENT  GARDEN. 

MDCCCLII. 


6^0 


J.  BILLING, 

PRINTER  AND  STEEEOTYPBa, 

WOKING,  8UBBBY. 


PREFACE. 


Ai^TEB  a  lapae  of  205  years  since  the  first  publication, 
in  1647,  of  Lilly's  Introduction  to  Astrology^  there 
would  be  no  necessity  for  an  apology  for  its  re-appear- 
ance, were  it  not  for  the  prevailing  fashion  of  the  day, 
which  is  to  rail  at  and  vituperate  that  science,  and  all 
who  dare  to  say  a  word,  not  in  its  favour,  but  in  favour 
of  examining  into  its  merits,  with  a  view  to  ascertain 
what  were  the  grounds  on  which  our  honest  ancestors 
believed,  and  strictly  followed,  that  which  we  conceive 
only  fit  for  ridicule.  As  I  have  long  outlived  the  days 
when  I,  like  many  others,  thought  myself  at  liberty  to 
laogh  at,  and  condemn,  what  I  did  not  understand  ;  the 
world  will  forgive  me  if  I  be  bold  enough  to  advise  those 
who  value  truth,  to  spend  a  few  days  (and  but  a  few 
days  will  be  necessary)  in  examining  the  principles  laid 
down  in  this  work,  and  applying  them  to  their  own  in- 
dividual cases,  before  they  join  the  herd  of  learned  and 


IV  PREFACE. 

unlearned  in  pledging  their  words  to  a  false  assertion, 
viz.  that  Astrology  is  an  unfounded  science.  If  any 
man  will  take  the  trouble  to  examine  for  himself,  and 
9^iould  find  that  the  prejudices  of  his  education  against 
the  science  of  foreseeing  the  future,  and  many  other 
matters  which  it  teaches,  are  in  reality  well-founded, 
and  that  it  has  no  claims  to  truths  then  will  he  have 
the  proud  satisfaction  of  knowing,  that  his  opinions  on 
a  matter  of  some  consequence  are  based  on  experiment, 
and  are  the  result  of  his  own  conviction,  not  of  another 
person's  assertion.  On  the  other  hand,  if  he  find  truth 
flash  with  lightning  force  upon  his  mind,  and  convince 
him  that  Astrology,  notwithstanding  prejudice  and  abuse, 
is  founded  m  nature,  and  is  indeed  a  noble  science,  given 
by  a  benevolent  Creator  to  enlighten  man  in  his  wan- 
derings, and  enable  him  to  shun  the  vice  and  folly  which 
his  passions  throw  in  his  path ;  then  wUl  he,  if  a  spark 
of  piety  exist  within  his  breast,  offer  thanks  to  that 
Creator  for  the  blessing  he  has  discovered.  In  either 
case,  he  must  admit  that  I  do  him  a  service  in  putting 
forth  this  plain  and  simple  means  of  discovering  the 
truth. 

This  is  "  the  age  of  enquiry ;"  and  yet  prejudice  con- 
tinues to  press  down  her  leaden  foot  upon  the  neck  of 
examinaticHi  in  this  matter.     I  can  only  attribute  the 


PBBFACE.  V 

pitiable  fact  to  the  circumstance  of  there  being  no  recent 
publications  on  those  parts  of  Astrology  which  are  the 
most  easily  acquired.  The  art  of  Nativities  requires 
many  years  of  patient  experimenting  before  it  can  be^ 
weD  understood,  and  practised  with  certainty  and  satis- 
f^c&m.  The  art  of  Atmospherical  Astrology^  and  also 
that  of  Mundane  Astrology ^  alike  demand  much  time  to 
penetrate  their  arcana,  and  a  good  education  to  follow 
their  practice.  Hence  we  may  account  for  their  com- 
])aratiyely  confined  study  :  few  have  either  the  abilities 
or  the  opportunity  to  wrestle  with  their  difficulties. 

Bat  Horary  Astrology ^  the  chief  subject  in  this  work, 
may  be  speedily  learned  by  any  person  of  even  moderate 
abilities;  and  may,  as  far  as  regards  its  elementary 
difBcolties,  be  mastered  in  a  few  days'  study.  It  may 
be  well  understood,  and  reduced  to  constant  practice  in 
leas  than  a  quarter  of  a  year,  and  no  one  will  find  him- 
self at  a  loss  for  occasions  to  test  its  reality  or  its  utility ; 
'for  his  own  avocations,  and  the  affairs  of  his  friends, 
will  offer  these  almost  daily.  K  a  proposition  oiany 
vutwre  be  made  to  any  individual,  about  the  result  of 
which  he  is  anxious,  and  therefore  uncertain  whether  to 
accede  to  it  or  not,  let  him  but  note  the  hour  and  minute 
when  it  waa  first  made,  and  erect  a  figure  of  the  heavens, 
as  herein  taught,  and  his  doubts  will  be  instantly  re- 


VI  PBEFACE. 

solved.  He  may  thus,  in  five  minutes,  learn  infallibly 
whether  the  affair  will  succeed  or  not ;  and,  conse- 
quently, whether  it  is  prudent  to  adopt  the  offer  made 
or  not.  If  he  examine  the  sign  on  the  1st  house  of  the 
figure,  the  planet  therein,  or  the  planet  ruling  the  sign, 
rvill  exactly  describe  the  party  making  the  offer ^  both  in 
person  and  character ;  and  this  may  at  once  convince 
the  inquirer  for  truth  of  the  reality  of  the  principles  of 
the  science. 

Moreover,  the  descending  sign,  &c.  will  describe  his 
own  person  and  character;  a  farther  proof  of  the  truth 
of  the  science,  if  he  require  it.  Here,  then,  is  a  ready 
test  of  the  truth  of  Astrology.  Will  its  adversaries  dare 
to  make  its  application  ?  It  would,  methinks,  be  better 
than  relaxing  the  broad  muscles,  which  ever  denote 
ignorance  and  surprise,  the  feelings  which,  combined, 
are  the  undoubted  source  of  laughter;  the  only  argument 
of  the  idiot,  the  ready  resource  of  the  ignorant. 

In  editing  this  work,  liiy  chief  object  has  been  to 
render  it  useful  to  the  student  in  Astrology,  and  so,  by 
forwarding  the  science,  to  promote  the  general  interests 
of  humanity. 

With  this  view  I  have  re- written  those  parts  of  the 
work  which  modem  discoveries  in  Astronomy  and 
Astrology  have  rendered  obsolete.     Tables  for  calcu- 


PREFACE.  Vll 

latitig  Nativities  and  a  Grammar  6f  Astrology  are  ad- 
joined, and  every  ingredient  of  the  science  given  which 
the  student  is  likely  to  require. 

As  regards  the  deviations  I  have  made  from  the  rules 
of  the  author,  they  are  few,  and  founded  on  much  expe- 
rience. I  have  omitted  his  chapters  on  nativities,  as  in 
that  part  of  the  science  he  was  less  perfect  than  in  any 
other ;  the  reason  being  that  he  relied  on  essential  dig- 
nities, which  are,  by  my  experience,  of  little,  if  any, 
avail.  The  rules  for  calculating  arcs  of  direction  will 
be  found  in  the  Chrammar, 

In  conclusion,  I  have  no  desire  to  offend  any  class  of 
men  by  patting  forth  this  work :  I  do  not  know  whether 
I  should  not  respect  even  prejudice,  for  the  sake  of 
peace,  were  it  not  that  I  cannot  conscientiously  consent 
to,  abandon  truth  in  the  effort.  I  am  callous  to  the 
pnny  efforts  of  critics  who  may  desire  to  pour  on  me  the 
waters  of  \ituperation  or  ridicule,  having  already  passed 
through  a  flood.  After  many  years'  experience,  I  have 
found  the  la.ws  of  Astrology  unfailing ;  and  as  I  can 
discover  no  prohibition  of  its  practice  in  the  Word  of 
God,  I  am  prepared  to  defend  it  against  all  the  foolish 
attacks  of  those  who  falsely  declare  that  it  upholds 
fetality,  or  is  opposed  to  the  providence  or  the  revelation 
of  the  Deity.     And  I  am  contented,  with  God's  blessing. 


vill  PREFACE. 

• 

to  give  up  the  ghost  in  the  firm  persuasion,  that,  in 
maintaining  what  I  believe  is  the  truth  in  this  respect, 
I  shall  meet,  hereafter,  through  the  goodness  of  God 
and  the  merits  of  my  Saviour,  with  a  merciful  judg- 
ment. 

I  am,  reader,  your  devoted  friend  and  well-wisher  in 
all  science  which  may  honour  God  and  benefit  man- 
kind, 

ZADKIEL. 


TABLE    OF    CONTENTS 

OF  THE  INTRODUCTION  TO  ASTROLOGY. 


P»ge 

Life  of  William  LUly 1 

Epistle  to  the  Student  in  Astrology          10 

Introdnction  to  Astrology        ..         ..         ..  ..         ..13 

Of  the  Planets         ib. 

The  Signs  of  the  Zodiac           14 

Northern  Signs          ib. 

Southern  Signs    . .         . .         . .         . .         . .          . .         . .  ib. 

Diagram  of  the  Sun's  Motion  in  the  Zodiac        15 

Tropical  Signs 16 

Bqumoctial  Signs ib. 

Doable-bodied  Signs ib. 

Moveable         ditto                      ib. 

Common          ditto . .                    . .          . .  ib. 

Rxed              ditto            ib. 

Rcry               ditto ib. 

Earthy            ditto            ib. 

Airy               ditto      . .          . .         ib. 

Watery           ditto             ." ib. 

Dragon's  Head  and  Tail  16,  52 

to  find  the  place  of            17 

Kgnre  of  the  Twelve  IJonses 20 

Erecting  Figure  of  the  Heavens 21 

OftheAspects *        24 

Zodiacal  ditto         . .         . . ib. 

Orbs  of  the  Planets                             25 

Mundane  Aspects  . .         . .          ib. 

OfParalleb ib. 

Nature  and  Signification  of  the  Twelve  Houses 27 

Of  the  Rrst  House        ..         ..         ib. 

— Second  ditto          29 

Third  ditto        ib. 


/ 

/ 


X  TABLE  OF  CONTENTS. 

Page 

Of  the  Fourth  House         30 

Fifth    ditto ib. 

Sixth   ditto           ;.  31 

Seventh  ditto 31 

Eighth  ditto          32 

Ninth    ditto ..         ..  ib. 

Tenth   ditto           '    ..         ..  33 

Eleventh  ditto ib. 

Twelfth  ditto        34 

Of  Saturn  and  his  Significations          35 

—  Jupiter  and  his  Significations   . .         38 

—  Mars  and  his  Significations            40 

—  the  Sun  and  his  Significations 42 

—  Venus  and  her  Significations          45 

—  Mercury  and  his  Significations . .         . .         47 

—  the  Moon  and  her  Significations 50 

^Herschel        53 

Colours  of  the  Planets  and  Signs           . .                  57 

Aries           . .         . .         . .  ib. 

Taurus 58 

Gemini        . .         . .                    . .         ....         . .         . .  59 

Cancer ib. 

Leo 60 

Tirgo 61 

Libra          62 

Scorpio  .  •         . .          63 

Sagittary 64 

Capricorn         • ib. 

Aquarius     ..                    | 65 

Pisces 66 

Use  to  be  made  of  the  Twelve  Signs        67 

Essential  Dignities  of  the  Planets 69 

Table  of  ditto          72 

Considerations  before  Judgment         74 

Introduction  to  the  Judgment  of  a  Question       75 

To  know  whether  a  Thing  will  be  brought  to  perfection,  yea  or  nay .  77 

Of  the  true  time  of  erecting  a  Figure        80 

Of  the  Planet  which  hinders  or  impedites  the  Thing  demanded      . .  81 


TABLE  07  CONTENTS.  XI 

Page 
QuisnoNS  coNCBRNiKO  THB  FiRST  HousB.    If  the  Querent  be 

likely  to  live  long  ? 83 

To  what  part  it  is  best  the  Querent  should  direct  his  affiurs     . .  86 

What  part  of  Life  is  likely  to  be  best?          86 

If  one  shall  find  the  Party  at  Home  he  would  speak  with  ?       . .  95 

A4hing  suddenly  happening,  whether  it  signifies  good  or  evil  ?      . .  96 

What  Mark,  Mole,  or  Scar,  the  Querent  has  on  any  part  of  his  Body  ?  97 

Purts  of  Man's  Body  ruled  by  the  Twelve  Signs       ib. 

Whether  one  absent  be  dead  or  alive  ? 98 

Messore  of  Time          100 

Of  a  Ship,  and  her  safety  or  destruction  . .  105 

Parts  of  a  Ship  ruled  by  the  Signs 107 

£raii^.— A  Ship  at  Sea.    If  lost?         108 

A  Ship  at  Sea.    In  what  condition  ? Ill 

JUDGMBNTS  CONCBRNINO  THB  SbCOND  HoUSB 112 

Whether  the  Querent  shall  be  rich  ?    By  what  means  attam  it  ?  &c.  ib. 

Signs  of  Poverty,  and  its  cause           115 

If  the  Querent  shall  obtain  the  substance  he  hath  lent,  or  which  he 

demands? 116 

If  one  shall  acquire  gain  or  profit  from  the  Govemmeat,  or  any  * 

Nobleman  or  Person  of  high  rank  ?  &c.         117 

Example, — ^If  the  Querent  should  be  rich,  or  subsist  himself  without 

Bfaniage? 119 

Of  THB  Third  Housb,  viz.,  o(  Brethren,  Kindred,  News,  Short 

Journeys,  &c 122 

^  an  absent  Brother? 123 

— '  Beports,  News,  Rumours,  &C.,  whether  true  or  false  ?  &c.          . .  126 

^  Counsel  or  Advice  given  by  a  Neighbour,  &c.  127 

—  Short  Journeys,  whether  good  to  go  or  not  ?        ib. 

Of  THB  Fourth  Housb,  viz.,  ot  Parents,  Lands,  Tenements,  Cities, 

Towns,  Farms,  &c 134 

To  find  a  Thing  hidden  or  mislaid ib. 

Of  Buying  and  Selling  Lands,  Houses,  &c  136 

Ifit  be  good  to  take  the  House,  Farm,  &c ..138 

Shall  the  Querent  enjoy  the  estate  ot  his  Father  ?  140 

Of  removing  from  one  House  or  Place  to  another  .      141,  221 

—  Treasure,  Mines,  &c.  concealed  in  the  Ground                     . .         142 
Question  of  purchasing  Houses  143 


xu 


TABLE  OF   COlfTENTS. 


Of  thb  Fifth  House 

If  one  shall  have  Children,  yea  or  nay  ?        

If  a  Woman  ask  whether  she  may  haye  a  Child  ?    . . 

Whether  a  Man  shall  have  Children  hy  his  Wife,  or  his  intended  Wife  ? 

Whether  a  Woman  he  with  Child  ? 

Is  the  Child  male  or  female  ? 
Shall  the  Child  live  or  die  ? 
Of  the  Time  of  the  Birth  ?  . . 

—  Messengers  or  Ambassadors 

—  a  Message  sent  for  Money 

Of  the  Sixth  House,  Tiz.  of  Sickness,  Servants,  Small  Cattle,  &c. 
What  Part  of  the  Body  is  afflicted  ? 
The  cause  and  nature  of  the  Sickness 
Diseases  signified  by  the  Houses 
Signs  of  a  short  Disease 

long  Disease 

Testimonies  of  Recovery 

Arguments  of  Death 

To  know  whether  the  Querent  be  really  ill  or  not 

Of  the  Crises,  or  of  critical  days 

How  long  before  Recovery  ? 

Judgments  from  the  AfiUction  of  ])  at  the  first  lUness,  &c. 

Table,  shewing  what  part  of  Man's  Body  each  Planet  signifies  in  the 

Twelve  Signs 
Diseases  of   h 


of  2A 
of  ^ 
-of  0 
-of? 
-of  § 
-of  }) 


The  Seventh  House,  &c. 

Aphorisms  and  Considerations,  for  better  judging  any  horary  question 

Whether  a  Man  shall  Marry  ?  

a  Woman  shall  Marry  ?         

The  Time  of  Marriage        

Of  Marriage  with  any  particular  Person 
Testimonies  that  the  Marriage  shall  be  hindered  . . 


Pag« 

147 

ib. 

ib. 

148 

ib. 

150 

ib. 

151 

ib. 

152 

158 

159 

160 

164 

161 

162 

164 

165 

166 

167 

168 

169 

179 
180 
181 
182 

ib. 
183 
184 
185 
186 

ib. 
190 

ib. 

ib. 
191 
192 


TABLE   OF  C01<rrENT8.  XIU 

Page 
What  shall  be  the  cause  of  the  Marriage  being  prevented  . .   192 

To  describe  the  person  and  qualities  of  the  future  Wife,  &c.  «  194 

Whether  the  fhture  Wife,  &c.  shall  be  rich  or  not  ? ib. 

How  the  Parties  shall  agree  ?  195 

From  what  part  a  person  shall  Marry  ?  197 

Whether  a  Lady  have  a  Lover  ?  &c ib. 

• a  Gentleman  have  a  Lover  ?  &c.     . .  . .   199 

a  Damsel  be  virtuous  ?   . .  200 

the  Child  conceived  is  the  child  of  its  reputed  father  ?     . .     ib. 

a  Woman  Uving  from  her  Husband  shall  return  ?        . .         201 

Of  Runaways,  Things  lost,  &c. 202 

The  Place  where  the  Thing  lost  is ib. 

How  the  Thmg  vras  lost  203 

Whether  the  Thing  missing  be  stolen  ? 204 

— a  Thing  lost  shall  be  found  ?  ib. 

The  land  of  place  a  Thing  lost  is  in  ?         205 

Of  a  Fugitive,  and  whether  he  shall  be  found  or  returned  . .  207 

Or  Thefts ib. 

—  the  A^e  of  the  Thief  209 

Whether  the  Thief  be  Male  or  Female? 210 

one  Thief  or  more  ?  . .  . .     ib- 

In  what  part  of  a  house  Things  lost  or  stolen  may  be  214 

Whether  the  Goods  shall  be  recovered  or  not  ?  216 

Of  the  Thief's  Person  217 

—  Battle,  War,  Duels,  Prize  Fights,  &c 219 

—  Partnership 221 

—  Removing  from  place  to  place         141,  221 

Of  Lawsuits  ..         ^         222 

—  Making  Purchases  or  Sales . .  223 

Whether  the  Querent  have  any  Adversaries  or  open  Enemies     . .         227 

Or  THB  Eighth  House,  and  its  Questions  249 

Whether  an  absent  Person  be  dead  or  alive  ?        ib. 

Of  the  Death  of  the  Querent 250 

Whether  the  Wife's  Fortune  will  be  great  ?  &c 251 

the  Querent  shall  suffer  by  a  particular  thing  of  which  he 

is  in  fear?  252 

Or  THE  Ninth  House,  &c.  254 

—  a  Voyage,  and  its  Issue        ib. 


MV  TABLE  OP  COITrENTS. 

Page 
Of  a  long  Journey,  and  its  Issue 255 

—  the  Return,  &&  of  a  PcfBon  who  ia  gone  a  loog^  Jonniey  . .         . .  256 

—  Profit  by  any  Science,  &c.  257 

—  THB  Tbnth  House,  &c 269 

Whether  a  Person  shall  remain  in  the  Office  he  holds  ?    . .  270 

a  King  expelled  his  Kingdom,  &c.,  shall  be  restored        . .  271 

Of  the  Employment  of  which  any  one  is  capable  . .  272 

Of  the  Eletbnth  House,  &c.  276 

Whether  any  one  shall  have  the  thing  hoped  for  ? ib. 

Of  the  Sincerity  of  Friends 277 

Of  the  Twelfth  House,  &c. 278 

To  know  who  a  private  Enemy  is        ib. 

Whether  a  Person  committed  to  Prison  shall  be  discharged?      . .  ib. 

Whether  a  Prisoner  of  War  shall  escape,  &c 279 

Figure  of  the  time  when  King  Charles  the  First  set  up  his  Standard 

at  Nottingham         286 

Figure  of  the  exact  tune  ot  the  Death  ot  King  Charles  the  first      . .  290 
Fac-wmle  of  the  Hieroglyphic  of  the  Great  Plague        . .         . .         292 

of  the  Astrological  Hieroglyphic  of  the  Great  Fire  in  London  293 

Aphorisms  by  Zadkiel 294 

Appendix 295 


i 


LIFE  OF  WILLIAM  LILLY. 


Is  offering  an  abstract  of  the  most  valaable  of  itna  clever 
astrologer's  works  to  the  notice  of  the  pubUc,  I  consider 
myself  called  upon  to  make  some  mention  of  his  personal 
liistory.  And  it  fortunately  happens  that  this  is  not  made  up 
of  imaginary  ideas>  founded  on  a  few  known  facts,  and  a 
multiplicity  of  suppositions ;  for  what  we  know  of  this  man 
of  extraordinary  talent  rests  on  the  best  evidence.  He  under- 
took, in  his  sixty-sixth  year,  to  write  a  history  of  his  own 
life  to  his  "  worthy  friend,"  Elias  Ashmole,  Esq.,  afterwards 
Sir  Elias  Ashmole,  the  founder  of  the  celebrated  museum 
which  bears  his  name.  Mr.  Ashmole  made  marginal  notes 
therein,  which  testify  his  high  opinion  of  our  Author ;  and, 
fortonately  for  the  cause  of  Astrology,  this  gentleman  verified 
the  correctness  of  the  Figures  of  Heaven,  which  are  given  in 
the  subsequent  pages  ;  for  we  find  the  following  note  at  the 
foot  of  page  131  : — "  I  devised  the  forms  and  fashions  of  the 
several  schemes,  E,  A,''  This  note  was  made  after  these  ob- 
servations of  Lilly.  "  The  desire  I  had  to  benefit  posterity 
and  my  country,  at  last  overcame  all  difficulties  ;  so  that  what 
I  could  not  do  in  one  year,  I  perfected  early  the  next  year, 
1647 ;  and  then  in  that  year,  viz.  1647>  I  finished  the  third 
book  of  nativities  ;  during  the  composing  whereof,  for  seven 
whole  weeks,  I  was  shut  up  of  the  plague,  burying  in  that 
time  two  maid-servants  thereof ;  yet,  towards  November  that 

B 


2  LIFE   OF  WILLIAM   LILLY. 

year,  the  Introduction,  called  by  the  name  of  Christian  As- 
trology, was  made  publick/' 

The  fact  of  this  work  having  been  chiefly  composed  under 
such  awful  circumstances,  with  a  dreadful  death  immediately 
before  his  eyes,  with  the  pestilence  ravaging  his  own  house- 
hold, might,  with  unprejudiced  men,  have  been  taken  as  a 
proof  that  the  writer  was  sincere  in  what  he  wrote ;  and 
really  believed  in  the  truth  of  that  which  he  taught  to  others 
as  truth  under  the  solemn  appeal  to  Almighty  God,  which  is 
so  beautifully  worded  in  his  introductory  epistle.  Modem 
critics,  however,  can  see  no  force  in  this  argument,  but  un- 
hesitatingly condemn  William  Lilly  ''as  an  accomplished 
impostor,  and  a  knavish  fortune-teller.*'*  Such,  reader,  is 
the  force  of  prejudice.  It  will  not  allow  men  to  examine  be- 
fore they  condemn ;  for  if  it  did,  then  would  the  Uterary 
world  speedily  acknowledge  the  reality  of  those  doctrines 
which  our  Author  has  so  ably  set  forth  in  the  following  pages. 

William  Lilly  was  bom  of  an  honest  yeoman  family,  in  the 
town  of  "  Diseworth,  seven  miles  south  of  the  town  of  Derby, 
on  the  first  day  of  May,  1602.**  At  eleven  years  old  he  was 
sent  to  Ashby  de  la  Zouch,  to  be  instmcted  by  one  Mr.  John 
Brindley.  Here  he  says  he  learned  the  following  authors, 
viz.,  SententuB  Pueriles,  Cato,  Corderitu,  ^sop's  Fables, 
Tally's  Offices,  Ovid  de  Tristibus  ;  lastly,  Virgil,  then  Horace; 
as  also  CamdeitCs  Greek  Grammar,  Theognis,  and  Homer^s 
Iliads;  and  entered  UdalPs  Hebrew  Grammar.  In  the 
eighteenth  year  of  his  age  his  master  *'  was  enforced  from 
keeping  school,  being  persecuted  by  the  Bishop's  officers  ;'* 
and  our  Author  was  "  enforced  to  leave  school.**  He  then 
kept  school  himself  for  "  one  quarter  of  a  year.'*  On  Monday, 
April  3rd,  1620,  he  left  Diseworth  and  came  to  London, 
where  he  was  compelled  to  accept  the  humble  situation  of  a 

*  Retrospective  Review,  vol.  ii.  p.  51. 


LIFE  OF  WILLIAM  LILLY.  3 

footboy,  his  fadier  being  then  "  in  Leicester  gaol  for  debt,*' 
and,  of  course,  incapable  of  doing  much  for  his  son.  He  had 
only  seven  shillings  and  sixpence  left  when  he  arrived  at 
London,  having  "  footed  it  all  along"  with  the  carrier.  Li 
1624  bis  mistress  died,  having  given  him  ''five  pounds  in  old 
gold.''  After  which  he  Uved  "  most  comfortably,"  his  mas- 
ter having  a  great  affection  for  him.  In  1626  his  master 
manied  again,  having  first  settled  on  our  Author  twenty 
pounds  a  year,  which  he  enjoyed  all  through  life.  In  October, 
1627,  he  was  made  free  of  the  Salters'  Company.  And  on 
tiie  "eighth  day  of  September,  1627/*  married  his  master's 
widow,  this  same  lady ;  and  they  "  lived  very  lovingly"  until 
her  death,  October,  1633. 

In  the  year  1632  he  began  to  study  Astrology,  being  in- 
structed in  the  rudiments  by  one  Evans,  a  Welshman,  of 
indifferent  abihties.  Lilly  tells  us  that  he  applied  himself  to 
these  interesting  studies  ''  many  times,  twelve,  or  fifteen,  or 
eighteen  hours,  day  and  night ;"  adding,  ''  I  was  curious  to 
discover  whether  there  was  any  verity  in  the  art  or  not."  By 
this  his  first  wife  he  acquired  a  fortune  of  ''very  near  to  one 
thousand  pounds."  In  the  year  1634  he  purchased  the 
moiety  of  thirteen  houses  in  the  Strand,  for  which  he  gave 
£530.  The  figure  of  the  heavens,  erected  on  this  occasion, 
inll  be  found  in  the  following  pages.  November  the  18th, 
1634,  he  married  again,  and  had  £500  portion  with  that 
wife.  "  She  was  of  the  nature  of  Mars,"  and  he  lived  not 
very  lovingly  with  her,  as  seems  by  his  observations  at  her 
death.  He  appears  to  have  now  practised  horary  astrology 
with  success,  and  to  have  instructed  numerous  individuals  in 
the  art;  among  others  he  taught  John  Humphreys,  in  the 
year  1640,  for  which  service  he  received  forty  pounds.  He 
also  wrote,  in  the  year  1639,  a  Treatise  on  the  Eclipse  of 
the  Sun,  May  22d,  1639  ;  and  appears,  about  that  period,  to 

B  2 


i  .. 


4  LIFE   or  WILLIAM  LILLY. 

have  turned  his  attention  much  to  Mundane  Astrology.  He 
says,*  "  I  did  carefully,  in  1642  and  1643,  take  notice  of 
every  grand  action  which  happened  hetwixt  king  and  par- 
Hament ;  and  did  first  then  incline  to  believe,  that^  as  all 
sublunary  affairs  did  depend  upon  superior  causes,  so  there 
was  a  possibility  of  discovering  them  by  the  configurations  of 
the  superior  bodies ;  in  which  way  making  some  essays  in 
those  two  years,  I  found  encouragement  to  proceed  further, 
which  I  did :  I  perused  the  writings  of  the  ancients,  but 
therein  they  were  silent,  or  gave  no  satisfaction ;  at  last,  I 
framed  unto  myself  that  method  which  then  and  since  I  follow, 
which  I  hope,  in  time,  may  be  more  perfected  by  a  more 
penetrating  person  than  myself." 

He  appears  to  have  dabbled  a  little  in  magic  also,  but  he 
soon  "grew  weary  of  such  employment,"  and  burned  his 
books.  Lilly's  better  sense  led  him  to  perceive  which  of 
these  studies  was  worthy  of  an  honest  and  intelligent  man's 
pursuit,  and  which  not. 

About  April,  1644,  he  first  published  Merlinus  Anglicua 
Junior.  This  work  contained  some  of  his  most  remarkable 
predictions,  and  was  continued  for  many  years.  It  attracted 
much  attention,  and  was  the  means  of  adding  greatly  to  the 
fame  of  our  Author  as  an  Astrologer.  In  that  year  he  printed 
the  White  King's  Prophecy,  "  of  which  were  sold,  in  three 
days,  eighteen  hundred;"  and  some  other  works  of  like 
nature,  the  Prophetical  Merlin,  &c. 

In  1645  he  was  twice  had  before  a  Committee  of  the  Par- 
liament, for  some  observations  in  his  Starry  Messenger  ;  but 
he  escaped,  partly  by  means  of  his  numerous  friends,  and 
partly  by  his  own  ingenuity.' 

In  1647,  when  he  published  the  present  work,  he  was  in- 
troduced to  General  Fairfax,  who  paid  him  and  his  art  some 
*  See  p.  101  of  LiUt's  History  of  his  life  and  Times. 


UTS  OF  WILLIAM  LILLY.  5 

compliments.  In  itna  year  he  was  consulted  by  King 
Charles  I.,  as  to  a  safe  place  to  conceal  his  royal  person  ;  but 
the  King,  unfortunately  for  himself,  neglected  Lilly's  advice, 
and  was  accordingly  ruined.  Again,  in  1648,  the  King  con- 
sulted Lilly  ;  but  though  he  promised  to  take  the  Astrologer's 
advice,  and  come  up  to  London  with  the  Commissioners,  he 
did  not,  however,  keep  his  word,  and  again  lost  a  good  oppor- 
tunity of  escaping  from  his  evil  destiny. 

"  In  this  year,"  says  Lilly,  "  for  very  great  considerations, 
the  council  of  state  gave  me  in  money  fifty  pounds,  and  a 
pension  of  one  hundred  pounds  per  annum,  which  for  two 
years  I  received,  but  no  more.'*  In  January  1649  he  was 
present  at  the  trial  of  King  Charles,  "  who  spoke,"  says  he, 
"exceUently  well." 

In  1651  he  pubUshed  Monarchy  or  No  Monarchy,  which 
contained  seyeral  hieroglyphics ;  among  others  those  of  the 
great  plague  and  fire  of  London,  which  the  reader  will  find  a 
copy  of  in  this  work. 

These  celebrated  predictions  were  made  by  means  of  the 
motions  of  the  fixed  stars,  as  is  evident  by  the  words  of  Lilly ; 
who  says,  "  the  asterisms  and  signs  and  constellations  give 
greatest  light  thereunto."  The  BulPs  North  Horn,  a  star 
which,  Ptolemy  says,  is  "like  Mars,"  was,  in  the  year  1666, 
when  the  fire  occurred,  in  II  1 7**  54',  which  is  the  exact  as- 
cendant of  London.  It  was,  no  doubt,  by  this  means  LiUy 
judged  the  city  would  suffer  by  fire  ;  for  in  his  Almanac  for 
1666  he  states,  that  the  19th  degree  of  II  is  London's  horo- 
scope. Our  Author  was  not  very  nice  in  his  calculations;  and 
it  may  be  observed,  that  though  it  may  be  called  the  19th  de- 
gree, being  within  6  minutes  of  it,  yet,  in  reality,  n  1 7°  54'  is 
the  true  ascendant  of  London.  It  was  that  which  ascended 
ftt  the  moment  of  driving  the  firnt  pile  of  the  new  London 
Bridge. 


6  LITE  07  WILLIAM  LILLY. 

The  longitude  of  the  BulVs  North  Horrid  Ist  January, 

1834 n  20^  15' 

Longitude  of  London's  ascendant     ...        n  17    54 

Difference 2     21 

This  difference  of  2°  21'  is  equal  to  8460  seconds  of  longi- 
tude, which,  divided  by  50^"  (the  rate  at  which  the  fixed 
stars  proceed  yearly),  gives  168. 

From  the  year 1834 

Take  away 168 

1666 
it  gives  the  year  when  that  evil  star  was  crossing  the  ascend- 
ing sign  of  London.  And  as  it  is  of  the  fiery  nature  of 
Mars,  we  need  not  be  surprised  that  it  produced  such  terrific 
results.  The  celebrated  Nostradamus  had  predicted  the  same 
event  in  that  year,  about  111  years  previously,  as  follows  : — 

*'  Le  sang  du  juste  a  Londres  fera  faute 
Broslez  par  feu,  de  vingt  et  trois,  les  six." 

The  blood  of  the  just,  which  has  been  spilt  in  London,  re- 
quires it  to  be  burned  with  fire  in  sixty-six.  He  states  Uiat 
he  made  this  prediction  by  ''  Astronomical  Affections." 

In  1651  Lilly  was  again  had  before  the  Parliament,  on  ac- 
count of  his  predictions,  and  was  thirteen  days  in  the  custody 
of  tlie  Seijeant-at-Arms.  But  the  prediction  which  gave 
offence,  viz.  that  the  ''Parliament  stood  upon  a  tottering  foun- 
dation, and  that  the  commonalty  and  soldiery  would  join  to- 
gether against  them,"  was  amply  fulfilled  by  the  members 
being  turned  out  of  doors  by  OUver  Cromwell. 

In  February,  1 654,  his  second  wife  died ;  and  in  October 
following  he  married  a  third,  signified,  in  his  nativity,  ''by 
Jupiter  in  Libra  ;  and,"  says  he,  "  she  is  so  totally  in  her 
conditions,  to  my  great  comfort." 


\ 


tlFB  OF  WILLIAM  LILLY.  7 

In  1655  he  was  indicted  at  Hicks's  Hall  by  a  half-witted 
young  woman.  The  cause  of  the  indictment  was,  that  he 
had  given  judgment  upon  stolen  goods,  and  received  two 
shillings  and  sixpence;  contrary  to  an  act  made  in  King 
James's  time. 

"  I  owned,''  says  he,  "  the  taking  of  half-a-crown  for  my 
jadgment  of  the  theft,  but  said,  that  I  gave  no  other  judgment 
but  that  the  goods  would  not  be  recovered,  being  that  was  aU 
which  was  required  of  me.  I  spoke  for  myself,  and  intro- 
duced my  own  Introduction  into  court,  saying,  that  I  had 
some  years  before  emitted  that  book  for  the  benefit  of  this 
and  other  nations  ;  that  it  was  allowed  by  authority,  and  had 
found  good  acceptance  in  both  Universities  ;  that  the  study 
of  Astrology  was  lawful,  and  not  contradicted  by  any  scrip- 
tare  ;  that  I  neither  had,  or  ever  did,  use  any  charms,  sorce- 
ries, or  enchantments,  related  in  the  bill  of  indictment,  &c. 
The  jury,  who  went  not  from  the  bar,  brought  in.  No  true 
Bill." 

''In  1666  happened,"  says  our  Author,  ''that  miraculous 
conflagration  in  the  city  of  London,  whereby,  in  four  days, 
the  most  part  thereof  was  consumed  by  fire."  He  then  gives 
an  account  of  his  being  brou^t  before  the  House  of  Conmions 
by  the  following  summons  : — 

MONDAY,  22nd  OCTOBER,  1666. 
"  At  the  Conunittee  appointed  to  enquire  after  the  causes 
of  the  late  fires : — 

"Obdebeb, 
"That  Mr.  Lilly  do  attend  this  Committee  on  Friday  next, 
being  the  25th  of  October,  1666,  at  two  of  the  clock  in  the 
afternoon,  in  the  Speaker's  chamber,  to  answer  such  questions 
IB  shall  be  then  and  there  asked  him. 

"  ROBEBT  BbOOKB." 


8  LIFE   OF  WILLIAM  LILLY. 

In  remarking  on  the  circumstance,  he  says,  "  I  conceive 
there  was  never  more  civility  used  unto  any  than  unto  my- 
self; and  you  know  there  was  no  small  numher  of  parliament^ 
men  appeared,  when  they  heard  I  was  to  be  there." 

"  Sir  Robert  Brooke  spoke  to  this  purpose : — 

"  *  Mr.  Lilly,  this  Committee  thought  fit  to  summon  you 
to  appear  before  them  this  day,  to  know,  if  you  can  say  any- 
thing as  to  the  cause  of  the  late  fire,  or  whether  there  might 
be  any  design  therein.  You  are  called  the  rather  hither,  be- 
cause, in  a  book  of  your's  long  since  printed,  you  hinted 
some  such  thing  by  one  of  your  hieroglyphics.*  Unto  which 
I  replied, 

*'  May  it  please  your  honours, 

'^  After  the  beheading  of  the  late  King,  considering  that 
in  the  three  subsequent  years  the  parliament  acted  nothing 
which  concerned  the  settlement  of  the  nation's  peace,  and 
seeing  the  generality  of  the  people  dissatisfied,  the  citizens  of 
London  discontented,  the  soldiery  prone  to  mutiny,  I  was  de- 
sirous, according  to  the  best  knowledge  God  had  given  me,  to 
make  enquiry  by  the  art  I  studied,  what  might,  from  that 
time,  happen  unto  the  parliament  and  nation  in  general.  At 
last,  having  satisfied  myself  as  Veil  as  I  could,  and  perfected 
my  judgment  therein,  I  thought  it  most  convenient  to  signify 
my  intentions  and  conceptions  thereof  in  forms,  shapes,  types, 
hierogljrphicks,  &c.,  without  any  commentary,  that  so  my 
judgment  might  be  concealed  from  the  vulgar,  and  made 
manifest  only  unto  the  wise ;  I  herein  imitating  the  examples 
of  many  wise  philosophers  who  had  done  the  like.  Having 
found,  Sir,  that  the  dty  of  London  should  be  sadly  afflicted 
with  a  great  plague,  and  not  long  after  with  an  exhorbitant 
fire,  I  framed  these  two  hieroglyphicks,  as  represented  in  the 
book,  which,  in  effect,  have  proved  very  true." 

"  Did  you  foresee  the  year  V*  "said  one. — "  I  did  not,"  said 


I*IVB  OF  WILLIAM  ULLT.  9 

I,  "orwag  desiroas ;  of  that  I  made  no  scrutiny."  '  "  I  pro- 
teedeffi-— 'Now,  Sir,  whether  there  was  any  design  of  hnm- 
ing  the  city,  or  any  employed  to  that  purpose,  I  must  deal 
ingennously  with  you ;  that,  since  the  fire,I  have  taken  much 
pains  in  the  search  thereof,  hut  cannot,  or  could  not,  give 
myself  any  the  least  sa;tisfaction  therein.  I  conclude  that  it 
▼as  the  finger  of  God  only ;  but  what  instruments  he  used 
thereunto  I  am  ignorant.' 

"  The  Committee  seemed  well  pleased  with  what  I  spoke, 
and  disnussed  me  with  great  ciyility." 

After  this,  nothing  very  remarkable  happened  to  our  Author. 
He  left  London,  having  acquired  an  independence,  and  set- 
tled at  Hersham,  in  the  year  of  the  great  plague,  1665.  He 
then  appUed  himself  diUgently  to  the  study  of  physic,  and  on 
the  11th  October,  1670,  he  received  a  hcence  to  practise  as  a 
physician.  He  continued  to  practise  with  much  success,  no 
doubt  by  applying  his  astrological  science  thereto ;  and  he 
gtye  his  advice  and  prescriptions  freely,  without  money.  His 
skill  and  his  charity  gained  him  extraordinary  credit  and  esti- 
mation. 

He  continued  genehJly  in  good  health  till  August,  1674  ; 
hut  his  health  and  his  eyesight  remained  very  weak  after- 
wards. He  still  continued  to  write  his  monthly  observations 
and  astrological  judgments,  though  latterly  by  aid  of  an 
amanuensis  (Mr.  Henry  Colley,  who  succeeded  him  as  an 
astrologer),  even  until  the  year  1682. 

In  the  beginning  of  1681  he  was  seized  with  a  flux,  which 
he  recovered  from,  but  then  became  totally  blind.  The  30th 
of  May  of  that  year  he  was  seized  with  a  dead  palsy  ;  and, 
after  some  days  of  severe  suffering,  he  died  about  three  o*  clock 
on  the  morning  of  the  9th  of  June,  1681,  "without  any  shew 
of  trouble  or  pangs." 

He  was  buried  in  the  chancel  of  Walton  Church,  his  friend. 


10  LITE  OF  WILLIA3C  LILLY. 

Sir  Elias  Aslimole,  assisting  at  the  laying  him  in  his  grave, 
which  was  "  on  the  left  side  of  the  communion  tahle." 

A  black  marble  stone  was  afterwards  placed  thereon  by  his 
friend,  with  the  following  inscription  : — 

Ne  Obhvione  Conteretur  Uma 

GULIELMI  LILLII 

AsTROLOOi  Peeitissxmi 

Qjji  Fjltis  Cessit 

Quinto  Idus  Junii  Anno  Christo  Juhano 

MDCLXXXI 

Hoc  nii  posuit  amoris  Monumentum 

ELIAS  ASHMOLE 

Abmioeb. 


"  An  Epistle  to  the  Student  in  Astrology, 

"  My  Friend,  whoever  thou  art,  that  with  so  much  ease 
shalt  receive  the  benefit  of  my  hard  studies,  and  doest  intend 
to  proceed  in  this  heavenly  knowledge  of  the  starres ;  In  the 
first  place,  consider  and  admire  thy  Creator,  be  thankfull 
unto  him,  and  be  humble,  and  let  no  naturall  knowledge, 
how  profound  or  transcendant  soever  it  be,  elate  thy  mind  to 
neglect  that  Divine  Providence,  by  whose  al-seeing  order  and 
appointment  all  things  heavenly  and  earthly  have  their  con- 
stant motion :  the  more  thy  knowledge  is  enlarged,  the  more 
doe  thou  magnify  the  power  and  wisdome  of  Almighty  Qod  : 
strive  to  preserve  thyself  in  his  favour ;  for  the  more  holy 
thou  art,  and  more  neer  to  God,  the  purer  judgment  thou 
shalt  give. 

**  Beware  of  pride  and  self-conceit :  remember  how  that 
long  agoe  no  irrationaU  creature  durst  offend  man  the  Macro- 
cosme,  but  did  faithfully  serve  and  obey  him  ;  so  long  as  he 


IiIFE   OF  WILLIAM  ULLT.  11 

was  master  of  bis  own  reason  and  passions,  or  until  he  sub- 
jected bis  will  to  the  unreasonable  part.  But,  alas !  when 
iniquity  abounded,  and  man  gave  the  reins  to  his  own  affec- 
tbn,  and  deserted  reason,  then  every  beast,  creature,  and 
outward  barmfull  thing,  became  rebellious  to  his  command. 
Stand  fast  (ob,  man)  to  thy  God :  then  consider  thy  own 
nobleness ;  bow  all  created  things,  both  present  and  to  come, 
were  for  thy  sake  created ;  nay,  for  thy  sake  €bd  became 
man:  thou  art  that  creature,  who,  being  conyersant  with 
Christ,  liyest  and  reignest  above  the  heavens,  and  sits  above 
all  power  and  authority.  How  many  pre-eminences,  privi- 
l^es,  advantages,  hath  God  bestowed  on  thee  :  thou  rangest 
above  the  heavens  by  contemplation,  conceivest  the  motion 
and  magnitude  of  the  stars  :  thou  talkest  with  angels,  yea, 
with  God  himself :  thou  hast  all  creatures  within  thy  domi- 
nion, and  keepest  the  devils  in  subjection.  Doe  not,  then, 
ior  shame  deface  thy  nature,  or  make  thyself  unworthy  of 
such  gifts,  or  deprive  thyself  of  that  great  power,  glory,  and 
Vdessednesse,  God  hath  allotted  thee,  by  casting  from  thee  his 
&vour  for  possession  of  a  few  imperfect  pleasures. 

**  Having  considered  thy  God,  and  what  thyself  art,  during 
thy  being  God's  servant,  now  receive  instruction  how  in  thy 
practice  I  would  have  thee  carry  thyself.  As  thou  daily  con- 
Tersest  with  the  heavens,  so  instruct  and  form  thy  mind  ac- 
cording to  the  image  of  Divinity :  learn  all  the  ornaments  of 
Tirtoe,  be  sufficiently  instructed  therein  :  be  humane,  curtius, 
fiuniliar  to  all,  easie  of  accesse :  afflict  not  the  miserable  with 
tenrour  of  a  harsh  judgment ;  direct  such  to  call  on  €bd  to 
divert  bis  judgments  impending  over  them :  be  civil,  sober, 
covet  not  an  estate ;  give  freely  to  the  poor,  both  money  and 
judgment :  let  no  worldly  wealth  procure  an  erronious  judg- 
ment from  thee,  or  such  as  may  dishonour  the  art.  Be  sparing 
in  delivering  judgment  against  the  common-wealth  thou  Hvest 


L 


12  LIFE   OF  WILLIAM   LILLT. 

in ;  EYoyd  law  and  controyersie :  in  thy  stndy  be  totus  in 
illus,  that  thou  mayest  be  aingultu  in  arte.  Be  not  extraya- 
gant,  or  desirous  to  learn  every  science ;  be  not  aliquid  in 
omnibus;  be  faithfully  tenacious^  betray  no  ones  secrets.  In- 
struct aU  men  to  Hve  well :  be  a  good  example  thyselfe ;  loTe 
thy  own  native  country ;  be  not  dismaid  if  ill  spoken  of,  con- 
scientia  mille  testes.  God  suffers  no  sin  unpunished,  no  lye 
unrevenged.  Pray  for  the  nobility,  honour  the  gentry  and 
yeomanry  of  England ;  stand  firme  to  the  commands  of  this 
parliament ;  have  a  reverent  opinion  of  our  worthy  lawyers, 
for  without  their  learned  paines,  and  the  mutual  assistance  of 
some  true  spirited  gentlemen,  we  might  yet  be  made  slaves, 
but  we  will  not ;  we  now  see  light  as  well  as  many  of  the 
clergy.  Pray,  if  it  stand  with  God's  will,  that  monarchy  in 
this  kingdom  may  continue,  his  Majesty  and  posterity  reigne : 
forget  not  the  Scottish  nation,  their  mutual  assistance  in  our 
necessity,  their  honourable  departure.  God  preserve  the  illus- 
trious Fair/ax,  and  his  whole  armye,  and  let  the  famous  city 
of  London  be  ever  blessed,  and  all  her  worthy  citizens.* 

"William  Lillt." 

*  I  have  retained  the  exact  orthography  of  this  epistle,  which  is  a 
curious  and  interesting  remnant  of  our  author's  day.  It  was  penned  in 
1047.— Ed. 


Air 

INTRODUCTION  TO   ASTROLOGY. 


CHAPTER  I. 


Theke  are  in  the  heavens  several  bodies  which  appear  to 
shed  their  light  directly  on  this  Earth  ;  and  also  some  others 
which,  having  no  light  of  themselves,  serve  to  reflect  that  of 
the  Sun,  and  thereby  become  visible  to  our  organs  of  sight. 
The  former  are  termed  Fixed  Stars,  because  they  appear  to 
retam  the  same  situation,  or  to  be  fixed  in  the  same  place ; 
but  the  latter,  being  observed  to  wander,  are  termed  Planets. 
The  number  and  distance  of  the  former  are  so  extensive,  that 
I  shall  take  no  further  notice  of  them  here,  than  to  observe, 
that  they  are  not  much  used  in  that  portion  of  Astrology 
which  is  denominated  Horary,  and  that  those  persons  who 
desire  to  make  use  of  them  in  nativities,  will  find  their  right 
ascensions  and  declinations  given  with  great  accuracy  in  the 
Nautical  Almanack  for  each  year.  In  the  Appendix  to  this 
work,  I  shall  give  rules,  to  ascertain  their  latitude  and  longi- 
tude by  trigoDometry,  for  the  benefit  of  such  persons  as  may 
be  carious  to  make  experiments  as  to  their  influence ;  though 
I  do  not,  in  general,  pay  much  attention  to  them  when  judging 
t  Dttivity. 

0/  the  Planets. 

These  are  ^   Herschel,    Tj    Saturn,   7/  Jupiter,  (J  Mars, 


14  IKTEODUCTION  TO  ASTBOLO€hT. 

O  Sol,  the  Sun,*  ?  Venus,  §  Mercury,  and  ])  Lima,  the 
Moon.  These  characters  have  been  always  in  use,  and  may, 
(with  the  exception  of  J^,)  be  traced  to  the  remotest  an- 
tiquity, and  their  origin  found  among  the  hieroglyphics  of 
Egypt.  But  as  the  object  of  this  work  is  practical  utility, 
no  more  need  be  said  on  the  subject* 

The  Signs  of  the  Zodiac, 

They  are  twelve,  each  containing  30  degrees,  thus  making 
360  degrees,  into  which  every  great  circle  is  divided.  The 
first  six  are. 

Northern  Signs, 
T  Aries,  Q  Taurus,  n  Gemini,  s  Cancer,  ^  Leo,  irp  Virgo. 

Southern  Signs, 

£i  Libra,  ir\.  Scorpio,  f  Sagittary,  Yf  Capricorn,  rs:  Aqua- 
rius, K  Pisces. 

The  first  sign,  T,  commences  the  zodiac,  its  beginning 
being  that  spot  in  the  heavens  where  the  Sun  is  when  cross- 
ing the  equator  in  spring ;  and  the  latter  sign,  K  >  finishes 
the  circle  of  the  zodiac,  the  latter  end  of  it  being  that  spot 
in  the  heavens  where  the  Sun  is  when  he  has  gone  his  round, 
and  is  again  about  to  enter  T  • 

By  referring  to  the  annexed  diagram,  the  student  will  per- 
ceive, that  when  the  Sun  enters  T  (about  the  21st  of  March) 
he  proceeds  northward,  and  increases  in  declination  until  he 
reaches  the  tropic  of  s  Cancer  (about  the  21st  of  June), 
when  he  speedily  begins  to  return  to  the  south ;  and  when 
he  reaphes  £^,  he  again  crosses  the  equator  (about  the  23d  of 
September),  where,  having  no  declination,  he  causes  equal 

*  The  Sun  and  Moon  are  considered  as  planets  in  all  astrological 
matters. 


IKTBOBUOTION  TO  iiSTBOLOGT. 


U7 


day  and  night  all  oyer  the  world.  He  then  declines  away  to 
tke  south  ;  shortening  our  days  in  the  northern  hemisphere, 
until  he  reaches  the  southern  tropic  Vf ,  Capricorn ;  at  length 
he  retoms  towards  the  equator,  and  crosses  it  by  entering  the 
sign  T  (about  the  21st  of  March),  where  again  he  has  no  de- 
dioation,  and  gives  equal  days  and  nights. 

Diagram  of  the  SurCs  Motion  in  the  Zodiac, 

Northern  N  Tropic. 


284  degrees  North. 


DeeUofttioa 


s 


23|  degrees  South. 


EzBLAKATiOK. — ^Thc  spacc  between  the  two  outer  circles 
ttiy  be  considered  as  the  line  of  the  Sun's  motion  s  and  then 


i_^ 


6  INTBODITCTION  TO  ASTBOLOGY. 

the  sign  opposite  the  name  of  each  month  will  shew  where 
the  Sun  is  ahout  the  21st  of  each  month.  The  glohe  in  the 
centre  may  he  taken  for  the  Earth,  the  northern  parts  of 
which  receive  the  greater  portion  of  the  Sun's  light  in  sum- 
mer, and  the  southern  parts  in  winter. 

These  signs  are  divided  into. 
Northern  Signs 


r,  0,  n,  s,  SI,  t?. 

:2b,  in.,  /,  Vf,  s::,  K. 
S,  and  Vf. 
T,  and  £t. 
n,  irp,  /,  K. 


Southern  Signs 
Tropical  Signs       . 
Equinoctial  Signs  . 
Double-bodied  Signs 

They  are  again  divided  into 

Moveable T,  SB,  ^9  Vf- 

Common 11,  trp,    f ,  K. 

Fixed 0,  ^,  m,  ST. 

Also  into 

Fieri/ T,  ^,  /. 

Farthj/ 0,  15?,  Vf. 

Airy n,  :2:^  r^. 

Watery ffi,  ill,  )^. 

The  student  must  hecome  well  acquainted  with  the  above 
particulars  ;  but  especially  so  with  the  northern  and  southern 
signs,  the  former  being  opposite  to  the  latter.  By  attending 
to  this,  he  will  readily  come  to  understand  the  figure  of  the 
heavens,  and  the  relative  situations  of  the  planets. 

N.B.  The  moveable,  common,  and  fixed  signs  are  always 
in  square  aspect  to  each  other,  three  signs  apart ;  and  the 
fiery>  earthy,  airy,  and  watery  signs  are  always  in  trine  aspect 
to  each  other,  four  signs  apart. 

THE  DRAGON'S  HEAD  AND  TAIL. 
The  Moon's  north  node  is  known  by  the  character  g3* 


\ 


rNTBODTJCTION  TO  ASTBOLOeX.  17 

termed  the  Dragon's  Head  ;  and  her  south  node  by  this  S, 
termed  the  Dragon's  Tail.  The  former  of  these  in  horary 
questions  denotes  good,  and  is  considered  of  the  character  of 
11,  and  increases  the  good  qualities  of  a  benefic,  with  which 
it  may  be  found ;  and  diminishes  the  evil  of  a  malefic  planet. 
The  latter  is  of  the  nature  of  Tj  9  and  does  the  reverse.  In 
nativities  these  characters  have  no  avail,  and  are  not  to  be 
considered,  except  with  regard  to  the  Moon,  who  is  found  to 
prodnce  good  or  evil  when  she  reaches  them  by  direction.* 

The  Pabt  of  Fobtitne. 

This  is  that  spot  in  the  heavens  which  is  equally  distant 
from  the  degree  ascending  that  the  Moon  is  from  the  Sun. 
It  is  found  by  the  following  rule  : — 

To  find  the  (©)  Part  of  Fortune  in  a  Nativity, 

Add  90°  to  the  right  ascension  of  the  meridian,  and  it  will 
give  the  oblique  ascension  of  the  ascendant.  From  the  oblique 
ascension  of  the  ascendant  subtract  the  oblique  ascension  of 
the  Sun  (having  first  added  360"*  to  the  former,  if  necessary)  ; 
to  the  remainder  add  the  right  ascension  of  the  Moon  :  the 
Bom  will  be  the  right  ascension  of  0. 

The  0  is  always  under  the  horizon  before  the  fall  Moon, 
and  ahwe  the  horizon  after  the  full  Moon.  Having  found  its 
light  ascension,  take  it  from  that  of  the  meridian  above  or 
bdow  the  earth,  according  as  it  may  be  situated  ;  or,  take  that 
of  the  meridian  from  it,  and  the  sum  or  difierence  will  shew 
the  distance  of  0  from  the  cusp  of  the  1 0th  or  4tli  house. 

*  These  nodes  are  the  points  in  the  ecliptic  where  the  Moon  crosses 
^  north  into  south  latitude,  or  the  reverse,  which  occurs  twice  each 


18  INTBODUCTIOlSr  TO  ASTBOLOGT. 

Example : — ^A.  B.  of  midheayen  .     . 
Add  thereto 


Oblique  asc.  of  the  ascendant 
Subtract  oblique  asc.  of  Q     • 

Add  right  ascension  of  the  ]) 

Take  away 

It  leaves  right  ascension  of  0     .      279     5 

Then,  as  the  birth  took  place  after  full  Moon,  and  the  0 
will  be  above  the  Earth,  find  the  difference  of  right  ascension 
between  it  and  the  meridian  above  the  Earth. 
Thus :     Right  ascension  of  0     ...     .       279^   5' 
Bight  ascension  of  the  midheaven.       221     5 


221' 
90 

5' 
0 

311  5 
17  34 

293  31 
345  34 

639 
360 

5 
0 

Distance  of  0  from  the  1 0th  house        58    0 


If  the  0  be  in  the  same  hemisphere  as  the  ]) ;  that  is,  if 
both  be  above  or  below  the  Earth,  it  will  have  the  semi-arc  of 
the  ]) ;  but  if  otherwise,  it  will  have  the  opposite  semi-arc ; 
which  may  be  found  by  taking  the  ])  's  from  180**.  In  this 
nativity  (which  is  that  of  the  Duke  of  Wellington)  the  semi- 
arc  of  the  Moon  is  90"  57',  which  taken  from  180*  leaves  the 
semi-arc  of  0  89"  3',  two-thirds  of  which  are  59"  22' ;  and 
it  appears  that  0  is  just  1*22'  outside  the  cusp  of  the  12th 
house.* 

The  0  has  no  influence  on  the  health  or  life  of  the  native ; 

*  This  is  found  by  taking  its  distance  from  the  10th  68*  0'  from  |  of 
its  semi-arc  59"  22'. 


> 


UTTBODIIOTION  TO   ASTBOLOGT.  19 

but  it  inflnences  the  pecuniary  aflfairs  very  powerfully,  and 
also,  in  some  degree,  the  profession  or  employment.* 

To  find  the  Place  of  0  in  the  Figure  of  a  Horary  Question. 

In  horary  astrology  0  is  merely  a  symbol,  and  has  much 
to  do  with  all  questions  regarding  property,  loss  or  gain,  &c. 
In  this  case  it  is  found  by  a  more  simple  rule,  as  follows : — 

Add  together  the  longitude  of  the  ascendant  and  longitude 
of  the  ]),  from  which  subtract  the  longitude  of  the  ©:  the 
remainder  will  be  the  longitude  of  0. 

Example  : — Where  was  the  0  at  3h.  20m.  p.m.  28th  of 
December,  1644  ?t 

Signs  deg.  min. 

The  Ascendant  was  s  IT  33',  or         3  11  33 
The  ])  was  in  0,  16''  49',  or     .     .         1   16  49 


For  subtraction  add 


The  0  in  Vf,  17**  54',  or   .     .     . 

Place  of  0  in  the  figure    ...  7  10  28 

or  ni  10*  28'. 

*  In  proof  of  this,  it  is  evident  that  in  the  Duke's  nativity  })  came  to 
d  of  ®  in  NoYember  1834,  when  he  was  appointed  to  the  ministry.  Thus 
$  is  58*  from  the  meridian,  and  >  124<>  29, ;  the  difference  is  66**  29' ; 
which  arc  of  direction,  added  to  the  right  ascension  of  0  at  his  buth 
39*  21',  gives  1050  SC,  the  right  asc.  of  25  14«  34'.  The  0  arrived  at  this 
point  at  1  P.M.  6th  July  1769,  or  65  days  13  hours  after  birth,  which,  by 
^  Pladdian  measure  of  a  year  for  a  day,  gives  65  years  6|  months,  the 
Dike's  age  when  the  event  occurred. — N.B.  The  ascendant  came  to  cS 
of  0  at  the  same  time,  which,  by  referring  to  our  author's  rules  for  the 
tfectt  of  directions,  virill  be  seen  to  cause  such  eminent  preferment.  The 
ieai^c  of  0  is  68«  13',  0  dist.  from  4th  house  l"*  44' ;  the  difference  is 
•^  29',  the  arc  of  direction. 

t  See  the  figure— Question,  •«  A  ship  at  sea,  if  lost  ?" 

0  2 


4 

28 

22 

12 

0 

0 

16 

28 

22 

9 

17 

54 

20 


INTBODUOTION  TO  ASTBOLOOT. 


CHAPTER   IL 


Explanation. — In  the  aboye  figure  the  Angles  and  the 
sncceedent  and  cadent  houses  appear  at  one  yiew.  The  let 
house  embraces  24"*  of  longitude  in  the  zodiac,  yiz.  from 
£2:  0*  (y  to  £i  24* ;  the  2nd  house  contams  30%  viz.  from  £:  24*» 
to  lit  24** ;  ^the  3d  house  contains  36®,  viz.  from  ir\.   24*^  to 


IKTBODUCTION  TO  ASTBOLOOT.  21 

Vf  0*  C,  being  6*  of  HI,  and  the  whole  of  f;  the  4th  house  con- 
taing  36^  viz.  the  whole  of  Yf  and  6*  of  ss;  the  5th  house 
contains  30",  viz.  from  tsj  6*^  to  K  6* ;  and  the  6th  house 
contains  24%  viz.  from  K  6**  to  the  end  of  that  sign,  or  T 
(f  (K. — ^N.B.  The  other  six  houses  will  be  found  to  embrace 
exactly  the  same  number  of  degrees  of  the  opposite  signs  of 
ike  zodiac  ;  the  7th  being  opposite  to  the  1st,  the  8th  to  the 
2d,  &c.  If  the  student  look  for  s  0**  0'  on  the  10th  house 
in  the  table  of  houses  for  London,  he  will  find  the  longitude 
of  the  six  eastern  houses,  as  here  noted ;  and,  of  course,  the 
six  opposite  or  western  houses  have  the  same  degrees  of  the 
opposite  signs  on  their  cusps. 

OP  EBEOTTNO  A  FIGUEE   OP  THE   HEAVENS. 

This  is  merely  a  map  to  represent  the  heavens  at  any  par- 
ticular moment,  such  as  when  a  child  is  bom,  or  a  question 
asked,  &c.  In  the  first  place,  draw  three  circles,  as  in  fffure 
1 ;  and  then  draw  lines  to  represent  the  horizon,  and  others, 
at  right  angles  with  them,  to  represent  the  meridian :  thus 
▼ill  be  shewn,  the  natural  divisions  formed  by  the  rising  and 
settLDg  of  the  Sun,  and  by  his  passing  the  meridian  at  noon 
and  midnight.  Each  of  these  quarters  or  quadrants  is  to  be 
again  divided  into  three  equal  parts,  forming 

The  Twelve  Hotises. 
These  are  marked  from  No.  1  to  No.  12 ;  and  it  will  be  ob- 
seryed,  that  the  double  lines  1  and  7,  which  represent  the 
eastern  and  western  horizons,  and  those  marked  4  and  10, 
which  represent  the  meridians  below  and  above  the  Earth, 
are  the  cusps  or  commencement  of  the  angles.  Those  lines 
nmabered  2,  5,  8,  and  1 1,  are  tne  cusps  of  the  succeedents, 
10  eaQed  because  they  follow  or  succeed  to  the  angles.  These 
houses  are  next  in  power  to  the  angles.  Those  lines  marked 
^  6,  9,  and  12,  are  the  cusps  or  beginnings  of  the  cadent 


22  INTEODUOTION  TO  ASTROLOaX. 

houses ;  so  called  because  they  are  cadent,  ,that  is,  falling 
from  the  angles  :  these  are  the  weakest  of  all  the  houses. 

Thus  the  student  will  perceiye,  that  if  a  planet,  &c.  be  in 
one  of  the  angles^  it  is  powerful ;  if  in  a  succeedent  house,  it 
is  less  powerful ;  and  if  in  a  cadent  house,  it  is  weak  and  in- 
capable of  effecting  much  either  good  or  evil. 

Rule  to  erect  the  Figure  of  the  Heavens  at  any  Time, 

1.  Learn  in  an  ephemeris*  for  the  year  what  was  the  right 
ascension  of  ©  at  the  noon  previbus  to  the  required  time,  in 
hours,  minutes,  and  seconds.  To  this  right  ascension  add 
the  number  of  hours  and  minutes  which  have  elapsed  since 
that  noon  :t  the  sum  will  be  the  right  ascension  in  time  of 
the  meridian  above  the  Earth  (the  mid-heaven)  at  the  required 
time. 

2.  Find  the  longitude  answering  to  this  right  ascension,  in 
the  column  marked  1 0th  house  in  the  Table  of  Houses,  which 
longitude  is  to  be  marked  over  the  line  which  denotes  the  mid- 
heaven  or  10th  house. 

3.  In  a  line  with  this  will  be  found  the  longitude  on  the 
cusps  of  the  11th,  12th,  1st,  2d,  and  3d  houses  ;  which  copy 
out  from  the  table,  and  enter  over  the  lines  which  denote 
those  respective  houses. 

4.  Having  thus  completed  the  six  eastern  houses,  find  the 
signs  and  degrees  exactly  opposite  to  each  of  them,  and  enter 
it  over  the  cusps  of  the  opposite  or  western  houses,  in  the 
following  order : — 

10th  house  opposite  4th  house 

11th  do.  5th 

*  Ephemeris  signifies  a  journal  or  Almanac,  in  which  the  places  of  the 
planets,  &c.  for  each  day  are  registered.  For  all  years  before  1834, 
White* 8  is  the  hest. 

t  This  time  must  first  he  corrected  for  the  error  of  the  clock,  hy  add- 
ing what  the  clock  is  too  slow,  or  subtracting  what  it  is  too  fast. 


USTTBODITCTION  TO  ASTEOLOGT.  23 


i2t]i 

opposite 

6th  house 

1st  or  ascendant 

do. 

7th 

2d  T 

do. 

8th 

3d 

do. 

9th 

5.  Haying  thus  completed  the  figure,  as  far  as  regards  the 
signs  of  the  zodiac,  it  now  remains  to  place  in  the  planets  as 
they  may  he  situated.  The  most  distant  from  the  Q  is  BJ[> 
whose  longitude  is  generally  given  in  the  ephemeris  for  each 
ten  days,  and  if  the  time  of  the  figure  fall  between  it,  it  must 
be  found  by  proportion.  When  his  longitude  is  found,  write 
it  m  the  figure,  thus,  ^  13'  19',  just  by  the  cusp  of  the  house, 
which  falls  in  the  same  sign  in  which  ^  is  found.  If  the 
cusp  be  farther  on  than  the  planet  in  the  sign,  place  the  planet 
(mtnde  the  cusp  ;  but  if  the  planet  be  the  farthest  advanced 
in  the  sign,  place  it  inside  the  cusp.  After  having  entered  Jg, 
enter  in  the  same  way  Tj ,  then  7/,  (J,  ©,  ?  0  and  the  J . 
To  find  the  exact  longitude  of  these  seven,  which  is  usually 
given  for  the  noon  of  each  day,  find  the  distance  they  travel 
in  longitude  between  the  two  noons  preceding  and  succeeding 
the  time  of  erecting  the  figure ;  and  then  take  the  propor- 
tional part  for  the  time  after  the  previous  noon,  and  add  it  to, 
(or  if  the  planet  be  retrograde  subtract  it  from),  the  planet's 
longitude  for  the  previous  noon. 

6.  Find  the  longitude  of  3  in  the  same  manner,  and  enter 
it  accordingly,  and  place  8  in  the  sign  and  degree  and  minute 
exactly  opposite  thereto. 

7.  If  it  be  a  horary  question,  calculate  the  place  of  0,  and 
enter  it  accordingly ;  when  the  figure  of  heaven  will  be  com- 
plete. But  if  it  be  a  nativity,  you  must  calculate  the  0  ac- 
coiding  to  the  rule  given,  first  having  prepared  a  Speculum, 
or  Table  of  Data,  as  taught  in  Chap.  9  of  the  Grammar  of 
Jitrok^. 


24  INTBODUCTIOir  TO  A8TB0L00T. 


CHAPTER  III. 

OF    THE    ASPECTS. 

"fHE  figure  of  the  heavens  heing  erected,  it  now  remains  to 
observe  how  the  planets  are  situated  as  regards  each  other ;  or, 
in  other  words,  how  they  are  aspected.     And,  first, 

Of  Zodiacal  Aspects, 

These  are  as  follow  : — 

Semi  ^,  a  Semi-sextile,  or  30  degrees. 

Semi  D,  a  Semi-square,  or  45  degrees. 

•)(•,  a  Sextile,  or  60  degrees. 

A  Quintile,  or  distance  of  72  degrees. 

D,  a  Square,  or  quartile,  90  degrees. 

A,  a  Trine,  or  distance  of  120  degrees. 

A  Sesquiquadrate,  or  square  and  a  half,  135  degrees. 

A  Biquintile,  or  double  quintile,  144  degrees. 

^  an  Opposition,  180  degrees. 
Good  aspects  are  the  semi-sextile,  sextile,  quintile,  trine, 
and  biquintile. 

Evil  aspects  are  the  semi-square,  square,  sesquiquadrate, 
and  opposition. — N.B.  The  conjunction,  marked  thus  (^y 
is  when  two  planets  are  in  the  same  degree  and  minute  of  the 
zodiac :  when  it  is  exact,  it  is  very  powerful,  and  is  called  a 
partite  (j  ;  but  if  within  the  planets'  orbs,  it  is  called  a  pla- 
tic  conjunction,  and  is  less  powerful.  To  know  whether  it 
should  be  considered  at  all,  the  orbs  of  the  two  planets  should 
be  added  together,  and  one-half  the  sum  taken ;  if  the  planets 
be  beyond  that  distance,  they  are  not  even  in  platic  cj  •  The 
same  holds  good  with  regard  to  other  aspects. 

The  orbs  of  the  cusps  of  the  houses  are  5**,  so  that  if  a 


nrrBODxrcnoN  to  astbologt.  25 

planet  be  one-half  its  orb  and  5""  more  distant  from  a  hoase^ 
it  is  not  in  aspect  to  that  house  ;  the  same  if  the  atpeet  of 
the  planet  fall  beyond  that  distance  firom  the  cusp  of  any 
other  house. 

Orbs  of  the  Planets, 

^,9^  1^,  9»;  (J,  7^  O,  15«;  ?,  7";  ?.  7^;  J),  12«. 
— N.B.  ^  has  had  no  orb  of  operation  discovered ;  but  I 
think  it  may  safely  be  considered  as  7*^  in  aU  horary  figures,  &c. 

0/ Mundane  Aspects, 

These  are  formed  by  the  houses  in  horary  astrology,  and  by 
the  semi-arcs  of  the  planets  in  nativities.  Thus,  a  semi  •)(-  is 
1  house ;  a  semi  D,  Ij- ;  a  •)(-,  2  houses  ;  a  D>  3  houses  ;  a 
A>  4  houses  ;  a  sesqui  D^  ^i  houses ;  and  an  ^,  6  houses. 

The  I  of  a  semi  arc  is  a  semi  •)(- ;  the  ^  of  a  semi-arc  is  a 
semi  D  ;  the  f  of  a  semi-arc  is  a  •)(- ;  the.  whole  semi-arc 
is  a  D  ;  and  l-5th  less  than  the  semi-arc  is  a  quintile  ;  the 
whole  semi-arc  and  ^  more  is  a  A  ;  the  whole  semi-arc  and 
i  more  is  a  sesqui.  Q  ;  the  one-tenth  part  of  a  semi-arc  added 
to  a  sesqui  a>  is  a  biquintile. — N.B.  The  entire  arc  of  a 
planet,  or  double  the  semi-arc,  will  not  give  the  measure  of 
Its  distance  from  the  opposite  point  of  its  place ;  but  if  the 
two  semi-arcs  of  a  planet,  both  diurnal  and  nocturnal,  be 
tdded  together,  they  make  ISO"",  an  opposition  aspect. 

0/  Parallels, 

The  Zodiacal  Parallel  is  when  two  planets  have  the  same 
amonnt  of  declination  from  the  equator.  It  is  the  most 
powerful  of  all  aspects,  but  is  not  generally  used  in  horary 
sstrology. 

The  Mundane  Parallel  is  an  equal  distance  from  the  meri- 
dian. .  It  is  used  by  some  horary  astrologers.  When  any  of 
the  above  aspects  are  formed  between  the  planets,  they  are 


26  IKTBODTTOTIOir  TO  ASTBOLOGT. 

found  to  have  a  mutual  influence  or  action  on  each  other, 
according  to  the  nature  of  the  aspect.     For  example :  if  the 

IO  he  60  degrees  (a  •)(-)  from  11  in  any  figure,  it  denotes 
that  the  person  signified  hy  the  Sun  is  under  the  henefic  in- 
fluence of  the  heneyolent  11 ;  and  shews  success  according 
,  to  the  nature  of  the  question.     In  nativities  it  causes  good 

rl  health  and  good  fortune  in  life.  But  if  ©  be  90  degrees 
(an)  ^iQ  ^  >  i^  shews  discredit,  a  failure  of  hopes,  &c.  in 
a  question ;  and  in  a  nativity  it  produces  much  sickness  to 
the  native,  and  also  misfortunes  to  his  father.  This  vras 
verified  in  the  nativity  of  Napoleon  Bonaparte's  son,  who  vras 
bom  at  9h.  15m.  a.m.  20th  March,  1811,  when  ©  was 
m  28°  53'  of  K,  and  F?  was  in  26°  28'  of  ^;  just  92°  25' 
distant  from  each  other.  This  very  close  n  aspect  of  ©  and 
T2  caused  great  trouble  to  the  native,  through  his  father's 
misfortunes ;  and,  as  ©  was  the  hyleg,  produced  a  con- 
sumptive disease,  and  early  death.  It  is  remarkable,  that 
his  father's  troubles  began  immediately  after  his  birth ;  and 
it  will  always  be  found  in  the  nativity  of  a  child,  that  the 
fortune  of  its  parents  may  be  ascertained  thereby  until  the 
birth  of  another  child.  If,  for  example,  the  child  have  evil 
planets  in  the  fourth  house,  its  father  will  be  more  or  less 
unfortunate  until  the  birth  of  another  child  ;  when,  if  that 
other  have  %  and  $  in  the  fourth  house,  the  father's  afiGurs 
will  become  more  fortunate  :  so  very  beautifully  do  the  na- 
tivities of  parents  and  their  children  sympathise  together. 


DfTHODTJCTIOir  TO  A8TE0L0GT.  27 


CHAPTER    IV. 

Of    THE    TWBLTB     HOTTSXS,    TKBIB    NATXTBE     AND     SIGNTFT- 
CATION. 

As  before  we  have  said  there  are  twelve  signs,  and  also 
twelve  houses  of  heaven  ;  so  now  we  are  come  to  relate  the 
nature  of  thSe  twelve  houses,  the  exact  knowledge  of  which 
is  80  requisite,  that  he  who  learns  the  nature  of  the  planets 
and  signs  without  exact  judgment  of  the  houses,  is  like  an 
improvident  man,  that  furnishes  himself  with  a  variety  of 
household  stuff,  having  no  place  wherein  to  bestow  them. 
There  is  nothing  appertaining  to  the  life  of  man  in  this  world 
which,  in  one  way  or  other,  hath  no  relation  to  one  of  the 
twelve  houses  of  heaven ;  and  as  the  twelve  signs  are  appro- 
priate to  the  particular  members  of  man's  body,  so  also  do 
the  twelve  houses  represent,  not  only  the  several  parts  of 
man,  but  his  actions,  quality  of  life,  and  living.     And  the 
cariosity  and  judgment  of  our  forefathers  in  astrology  was 
such,  that  they  have  allotted  to  every  house  a  particular  sig- 
nification ;  and  so  distinguished  human  accidents*  through- 
out the  whole  twelve  houses.     He  that  understands  the  ques- 
tions appertaining  to  each  of  them,  shall  not  want  sufficient 
grounds  whereon  to  judge  or  give  a  rational  answer  upon  any 
contingent  accident,  and  success  thereof. 

Of  the  FiEST  House,  and  its  Signification,'^ 

The  first  house  contains  all  that  part  of  heaven  from  the 
line  where  the  figure  1  stands  unto  the  figure  2,  where  the 
second  house  begins  :  it  is  one-third  of  the  distance  between 
the  horizon  and  meridian  below  the  earth.     It  has  significa- 

*  The  tenn  accidents  here  signifies  the  events  of  life  generally. 
iSesFig  I. 


28  INTBODXrOTION  TO  ASTBOLOaX. 

tion  of  the  life  of  man,  of  the  stature,  colour,  complexion, 
form,  and  shape  of  him  that  propounds  the  question,  or  is 
horn ;  in  eclipses  and  great  conjunctions,  and  upon  the  Son 
his  annual  ingress  into  T ;  it  signifies  the  common  people,  or 
general  state  of  that  kingdom  where  the  figure  is  erected. 
And  as  it  is  the  first  house,  it  represents  the  head  and  face  of 
man ;  so  that  if  either  T^  or  (^  he  in  this  house,  either  at  the 
time  of  a  question  or  at  the  time  of  birth,  you  may  observe 
some  blemish  in  the  face,*  or  in  that  member  appropriated  to 
the  sign  that  is  then  upon  the  cusp  of  the  house  ;  as,  if  T  be 
in  the  ascendant,  the  mark,  mole,  or  scar  is,  without  fail,  in 
the  head  or  face ;  and  if  few  degrees  of  the  sign  ascend,  the 
mark  is  in  the  upper  part  of  the  head ;  if  the  middle  of  the 
sign  be  on  the  cusp,  the  mole,  mark,  or  scar  is  in  the  middle 
of  the  face,  or  near  it ;  if  the  latter  degrees  ascend,  the  face 
is  blemished  near  the  chin,  towards  the  neck ;  this  I  have 
found  true  in  hundreds  of  examples.     Of  colours,  it  hath  the 
white ;  that  is,  if  a  planet  be  in  this  house  that  has  significa- 
tion of  white,  the  complexion  of  the  party  is  more  pale  or 
wan ;  or,  if  you  inquire  after  the  colour  of  the  clothes  of 
any  man,  if  his  significator  be  in  the  first  house,  and  in  a 
sign  corresponding,  the  party's  apparel  is  white  or  grey,  or 
somewhat  near  that  colour  :  so  also  if  the  question  be  regard- 
ing cattie,  when  their  significators  are  found  in  this  house,  it 
denotes  them  to  be  of  that  colour,  or  near  it :  the  house  is 
masculine.     The  consignificators  of  this  house  are  T  and  Tj : 
for  as  this  house  is  the  first  house,  so  is  T  the  first  sign,  and 
^2  the  first  of  the  planets ;   and  therefore,  when  Tj  is  but 
moderately  well  fortified  in  this  house,  and  in  any  benevolent 
aspect  of  7/ ,   ? ,  O,  or  ]) ,  it  promises  a  good  sober  consti- 
tution of  body,  and  usually  long  life ;    5  <ioth  also  joy  in  this 

*  This  is  verified  in  the  nativity  of  Lord  Brougham,  who  was  bom  with 
Jl  ascending  in  nt ;  he  has  a  very  great  natural  defect  in  the  face,  a 
nervous  catching  of  the  muscles  of  the  mouth,  &c. 


INTBODUCTION  TO  ASTEOLOGT.  29 

hoose^  because  it  represents  the  head,  and  he  the  tongue, 
fimcy,  and  memory ;  when  he  is  well  dignified  and  posited  in 
this  house,  he  produces  good  orators  ;  *  it  is  called  the  As- 
cendant, because  when  the  ©  and  planets  come  to  the  cusp 
of  this  house,  they  ascend,  or  then  arise,  and  are  visible  in 
oar  horizon. 

Questions  concerning  the  Second  House, 

From  this  house  is  required  judgment  concerning  the  estate 
or  fortune  of  him  that  asks  the  question,  of  his  wealth  of  pro- 
perty, of  all  moTcable  goods,  money  lent,  of  profit  or  gain, 
loss  or  damage ;  in  suits  of  law,  it  signifies  a  man's  friends 
or  assistants ;  in  private  duels,  the  querent's  second ;  in  an 
eclipse  or  great  conjunction,  the  poverty  or  wealth  of  the 
people:  in  the  Sun  his  entrance  into  T,  it  represents  the 
ammimition,  allies,  and  support  the  commonwealth  shall  have ; 
it  imports  their  magazines.  It  represents,  in  man,  the  neck 
and  hinder  part  of  it  towards  the  shoulders ;  of  colours,  the 
green.    It  is  a  feminine  house,  and  succeedent. 

It  has  consignificators,  11  and  l;^;  for  if  7/  be  placed  in 
flufl  house,  or  be  lord  hereof,  it  is  an  argument  of  an  estate 
or  fortune ;  ©  and  (J  are  never  well  placed  in  this  house  : 
either  of  them  shew  dispersion  of  substance,  according  to  the 
C!^pacity  and  quality  of  him  that  is  either  bom  or  asks  the 
question  .f 

The  Thied  House 

Has  signification  of  brethren,  sisters,  cousins,  or  kindred, 
neighbours,  small  journeys,  or  inland  journeys,  often  removing 
^m  one  place  to  another ;  epistles,  letters,  rumours,  mes- 
sengers :   it  rules  the  shoulders,  arms,  hands,  and  fingers. 

*  Lord  Brougham,  who  la  one  of  the  best  orators  of  the  age,  was  bom 
^ith  5  jost  rising. 

t  >  in  this  house,  if  in  good  aspect  to  1^,  ipves  the  native  wealth. 
The  Duke  of  Wellington  had  >  in  this  house  in  A  to  1^  in  the  lOth. 


30  ftTTEODUOTIOir  TO  ASTEOLOGT. 

Of  colours,  it  governs  the  red  and  yellow^  or  sorrel  colour ; 
it  has  consignificators,  n  and  (J,  which  is  one  reason  why^ 
in  this  house,  unless  joined  with  ^ ,  is  not  very  unfortunate : 
it  is  a  cadent  house,  and  is  the  joy  of  the  ]) ;  for  if  she  be 
posited  therein,  especially  in  a  moveable  sign,  it  is  an  argu- 
ment of  much  travel,  trotting,  and  trudging,  or  of  being 
seldom  quiet :  the  house  is  masculine. 

The  FoxTETH  House 

Gives  judgment  of  fathers  in  general,  or  ever  of  his  father 
that  inquires,  or  that  is  bom ;  of  lands,  houses,  tenements, 
inheritance,  tillage  of  the  earth,  treasures  hidden ;  the  deter- 
mination or  end  of  any  thing ;  townB,  cities,  or  castles  be- 
sieged or  not  besieged ;  all  ancient  dwellings,  gardens,  fields, 
pastures,  orchards ;  the  quality  and  nature  of  the  grounds 
one  purchases,  whether  vineyards,  cornfields,  &c.,  and  shews 
whether  the  ground  be  woody,  stony,  or  barren. 

The  sign  of  the  fourth  denotes  the  town,  the  lord  thereof, 
the  governor  \*  it  rules  the  breast  and  lungs;  and  of  colours, 
the  red:  its  consignificators  are  s  and  the  ©:  we  call  it  the 
angle  of  the  Earth,  or  Imum  Cceli  :  it  is  feminine,  and  the 
north  angle.  In  nativities  or  questions  this  fourth  house  re- 
presents fathers ;  so  does  the  Q  by  day,  and  ^  by  night ; 
yet  if  the  ©  be  here  placed,  he  is  not  ill,  but  rather  shows  the 
father  to  be  of  a  noble  disposition,  &c. 

The  Fifth  House. 

By  this  house  we  judge  of  children,  of  ambassadors,  of  the 
state  of  a  woman  with  child,  of  banquets,  of  ale-houses, 
taverns,  plays,  messengers  or  agents  for  republics,  of  the 
wealth  of  the  father,  the  ammunition  of  a  town  besieged ;  if 

*  This  alludes  to  questions  of  sieges,  which  were  too  frequent  in  the 
land  in  the  author's  time. 


INTBODXrOTIOlT  TO  ASTROLOGY.  31 

the  woman  ^ih  child  shall  hring  forth  male  or  female ;  of 
the  health  or  sickness  of  his  son  or  daughter  that  asks  the 
question.  It  rules  the  stomach,  liver,  heart,  sides,  and  back, 
and  is  masculine.  Of  colours,  black  and  white,  or  honey 
colour ;  and  is  a  succeedent  house ;  its  consignificators  are 
Qand  $ ,  who  does  joy  in  this  house,  in  regard  it  is  the  house 
of  pleasure,  delight  and  merriment ;  it  is  wholly  unfortunate 
by  (J^  or  ^2 ,  and  they  therein  shew  disobedient  children,  and 
imtoward. 

The  Sixth  House. 

It  concerns  men  and  maid  servants,  galley  slaves,  hogs, 
sheep,  goats,  hares,  conies,  all  manner  of  lesser  cattle,  and 
profit  or  loss  got  thereby ;  sickness,  its  quality  and  cause  ;  the 
principal  humour  offending,  curable  or  not  curable ;  whether 
the  disease  be  short  or  long ;  day-labourers,  tenants,  farmers, 
shepherds,  hogherds,  neatherds,  warreners,  and  it  signifies 
uncles,  or  the  father's  brothers  and  sisters.  It  rules  the  in- 
ferior part  of  the  belly  and  intestines,  even  to  the  rectum. 
The  house  is  a  feminine  and  cadent  house,  unfortunate  as 
having  no  aspect  to  the  ascendant.  Of  colours,  black  ;  ^ 
rejoices  in  this  house,  but  its  consignificators  are  the  sign  ti)^ 
and  planet  $  :  we  usually  find  that  $  and  $  in  conjunction 
in  this  house  are  arguments  of  a  good  physician.* 

The  Seventh  House. 

It  gives  judgment  of  marriage  ;  and  describes  the  person 
inquired  after,  whether  it  be  a  man  or  woman ;  all  manner  of 
love  questions  ;  or  public  enemies,  the  defendant  in  a  lawsuit, 
in  war,  the  opposing  party ;  all  quarrels,  duels,  lawsuits  ;  in 
astrology,  the  artist  himself ;  in  physic,  the  physician  ;  thieves 
snd  thefts,  the  person  stealing,  whether  man  or  woman ;  wives, 

*  This  alludes  to  questions  regarding  sickness,  and  by  no  means  to 
BttiTities. 


32    (^^/^^  DSTTEODUOTION  TO  ASTEOLOOT. 

sweethearts,  their  shape,  description,  condition,  nobly  or  ig« 
nobly  bom ;  in  an  annual  ingress,  whether  war  or  peace  may 
be  expected  ;  of  victory,  who  overcomes  and  who  is  worsted ; 
fiigitives  or  runaways,  banished  or  outlawed  men.  It  has 
consignificators  £S:  and  ])  *;  ^  or  (J  unfortunate  herein,  shew 
iU  in  marriage.  *  Of  colour,  a  dark  black.  It  rules  the 
haunches,  and  the  navel,  to  the  buttocks,  is  called  the  angle 
of  the  west,  and  is  masculine. 

The  Eighth  House. 
The  estate  of  men  deceased  ;  death,  its  quahty  and  nature; 
the  wills,  legacies,  and  testaments  of  men  deceased ;  dowry 
of  the  wife,  portion  of  the  maid,  whether  much  or  little,  easy 
to  be  obtained  or  with  difficulty.  In  duels,  it  represents  the 
adversary's  second ;  in  lawsuits,  the  defendant's  firiends ; 
what  kind  of  death  a  man  shall  die ;  it  signifies  fear  and  an- 
guish of  mind  ;t  also  who  shall  be  heir  to  the  deceased.  It 
rules  the  privy  parts.  Of  colours,  the  green  and  black.  Of 
signs,  it  has  \\  for  consignificator  and  Fj .  The  hemorrhoids, 
the  stone,  stranguary,  and  bladder,  are  ruled  by  this  house, 
also  poisons  ;  it  is  a  succeedent  house,  and  feminine. 

The  Ninth  House. 

By  this  house  we  give  judgment  of  voyages  or  long  jour- 
nies  beyond  seas,  of  religious  men,  or  clergy  of  any  kind, 
whether  bishops  or  inferior  ministers ;  dreams,  visions,  foreign 
countries,  books,  learning,  church  livings  or  benefices,  and  of 
the  kindred  of  one's  wife  or  husband.     Of  colours,  it  has  the 

*  We  always  find  that  h  >  ^ ,  or  ^Jl,  in  this  house  are  cmuet  of  ill-for- 
tune in  mairiage,  or  the  married  state,  in  nativities,  let  them  be  aspected 
how  they  will ;  and  in  questions,  we  have  no  opinion  of  them,  though 
ever  so  strongly  dignified.  The  Duke  of  Wellington  had  hoth  h  and  ^ 
in  the  7th,  and  was  unfortunate  in  marriage. 

t  This  alludes  to  the  significator  of  the  querent  being  placed  in  the 
8th  house. 


] 


INTBODirCTIOK  TO  ASTBOLOGif.  '  33 

green  and  white  ;  of  man's  body,  it  rules  the  fundament,  the 
hips,  and  thighs  ;  IJi  and  ^  are  consignificators  of  this  house; 
for  if  1/  be  herein  placed,  it  naturally  signifies  a  devout  man 
in  his  religion,  or  one  modestly  given.  I  have  often  observed 
vlien  the  Dragon's  tail,  >2  >  o^  c?  ^^^^^  ^^^^  unfortunately 
placed  in  this  house,  the  querent  has  either  been  Uttle  better 
than  an  atheist  or  a  desperate  sectarian.*  ©  rejoices  to  be 
in  this  bouse,  which  is  masculine  and  cadent. 

The  Teitth  House, 
Commonly  it  personates  kings,  princes,  dukes,  earls,  judges, 
prime  officers,   commanders-in-chief,   whether  in  armies  or 
towns ;  all  sorts  of  magistracy  and  officers  in  authority,  also 
mothers ;  honour,  preferment,  dignity,  office,  lawyers,  pro- 
fessions or  trade ;  it  also  signifies  kingdoms,  empires,  duke- 
doms, counties ;  it  has  of  colours  red  or  white,  and  rules  the 
knees  and  thighs.     It  is  called  the  medium  cceli,  or  midheaven, 
and  is  feminine.     Its  consignificators  are  Vf  and  (}  .     Either 
If.  or  the  0  are  very  fortunate  in  this  house,  especially  when 
they  are  placed  together  ;   ^  or  8  usually  deny  honour  as  to 
persons  of  quaUty,  and  to  the  vulgar  Uttle  prosperity  in  pro- 
fession or  txade. 

*  This  merely  allades  to  horary  questions,  and  can  have  no  kind  of  in- 
jtmenee  this  way,  these  things  being  at  the  most  symbols  o(  a  good  or  bad 
man ;  for  in  nativities  the  mind  is  influenced  by  the  Moon  and  Mercury 
only.  The  error  of  confounding  these  two  branches  of  the  science,  na- 
tivities, in  which  the  planets  are  cattses  (under  God)  of  events,  and  horary 
questions,  in  which  they  are  only  signs  of  the  events,  has  been  the  chief 
Bieans  of  bringing  this  sublime  science  into  disrepute.  This  error  appears 
to  have  arisen  from  the  low  state  and  condition  of  astronomy  in  the  mid- 
^  ages,  when,  even  as  late  as  the  days  of  Charles  II.,  Dr.  Goad,  his 
phyaeian,  assures  us  that  the  astronomers  could  not  calculate  an  opposition 
of  the  planets  ^  and  h  nearer  than  a  week.  How,  then,  can  it  be  ex- 
pected that  the  judgments  of  astrologers  should  have  always  been  correct, 
when  the  very  data  on  which  they  depended  were  often  erroneous  ? 

I) 


34  UTTEODirCTION  TO  ASTBOLOGT. 

The  Eleventh  Home, 

It  does  naturally  represent  friends  and  friendship,  liope, 
trust,  confidence,  the  praise  or  dispraise  of  any  one  ;  the  fide- 
lity or  falseness  of  friends.  As  to  kings,  it  personates  their 
favourites,  counsellors,  serrants,  their  associates  or  allies ; 
their  money,  exchequer  or  treasure  ;  in  war,  ammunition  and 
soldiery,  it  represents  courtiers,  &c.  In  a  commonwealth, 
governed  by  a  few  of  the  nobles  and  commons,  it  personates 
their  assistance  in  council ;  as,  in  London,  the  tenth  house  re- 
presents the  lord  mayor ;  the  eleventh,  the  common  council, 
the  ascendant  the  generality  of  the  commoners  of  the  said 
city.  Of  members,  it  rules  the  legs  to  the  ancles ;  of  colours, 
saffron  or  yellow.  It  has  ©  and  riis  for  consignificators  :  7/ 
especially  rejoices  in  this  house.  It  is  a  succeedent  house, 
and  masculine,  and  in  virtue  is  nearly  equivalent  either  to  the 
seventh  or  fourth  house. 

The  Twelfth  House, 

It  has  signification  of  private  enemies,  great  cattle,  or  horses, 
oxen,  elephants,  &c. ;  sorrow,  tribulation,  imprisonment,  all 
manner  of  afiiiction,  self-undoing,  &c. ;  and  of  such  men  as 
maliciously  undermine  their  neighbours,  or  inform  secretly 
against  them.  It  has  consignificators  K  and  $  .  Saturn  does 
much  delight  in  that  house,  for  he  is  naturally  the  author  of 
mischief.  It  rules,  in  man's  body,  the  feet.  In  colour  it  re- 
presents the  green.     It  is  a  cadent  house,  and  feminine. 

This  is  the  true  character  of  the  several  houses,  accordbg 
to  the  Ptolomeian  doctrine,  and  the  experience  I  have  had  my- 
self for  many  years.  I  must  confess  the  Arabians  have  made 
several  other  divisions  of  the  houses  ;  but  I  could  never,  in 
my  practice,  find  any  verity  in  them ;  therefore  I  will  say 
nothing  of  them. 


INTBODXrCTIOK  TO  A8TB0L0GT.  35 


CHAPTER  V. 

OF   SATUEN,   AJO)  HIS   SlGNTnCATIOK. 

Hk  is  the  supremest  or  highest  of  all  the  planets,'*'  and  is 
placed  between  Jupiter  and  the  firmament ;  he  is  not  very 
bright  or  glorious,  nor  does  he  twinkle  or  sparkle,  but  is  of  a 
pale  or  wan  ashy  colour ;  slow  in  motion,  finishing  his  course 
through  the  twelve  signs  of  the  zodiac  in  29  years,  167  days, 
and  5  hours,  or  thereabouts.  His  mean  motion  is  two  minutes 
and  one  second ;  his  diurnal  motion  sometimes  is  three,  four, 
five,  or  six  minutes,  seldom  more  ;  his  greatest  north  latitude 
from  the  ecliptic  is  2  degrees  48  minutes  ;  his  greatest  south 
latitude  is  2  degrees  49  minutes. 

In  the  zodiac  he  has  two  of  the  twelve  signs  for  hia  houses ; 
Tiz.  Capricorn  Vf  ^  his  night  house ;  Aquarius  n::: ,  his  day  house. 
He  is  exalted  in  £h,  receives  his  fall  in  T,  and  rejoices  in  the 
sign  Aquarius,  t;s.  He  governs  the  airy  triplicity  by  day, 
which  is  composed  of  n,  ^,  TXi* 

If  in  any  question  he  be  in  any  degree  wherein  he  has  a 
term,  he  cannot  be  said  to  be  peregrine,  or  void  of  essential 
dignities  ;  or  if  he  be  in  any  of  those  degrees  allotted  him  for 
bis  face  or  decanate,  he  cannot  then  be  said  to  be  peregrine  : 
understand  this  in  all  the  other  planets. f 

He  continues  retrograde  140  days  ;  is  ^ve  days  in  his  first 
stage  before  retrogradation,  and  so  many  in  his  second  station 
before  becoming  direct.  He  is  cold  and  dry  (being  far  re- 
moved from  the  Sun) ;  melancholy,  earthy,  mascuHne ;  and 
the  greater  infortune,  author  of  solitariness,  malevolent,  &c. 

When  well  dignified,  he  is  profound  in  imagination,  in  his 

*Thi8  was  tme,  as  far  as  the  author  knew ;  the  planet  Herschel  n^t 
^^^mg  been  then  discovered, 
t  For  the  terms,  Ac,  see  the  table  of  Essential  Dignities. 

l>2 


36  INTBODirCTIOS^  TO  ASTEOLOGT. 

acts  severe,  in  words  reserved,  in  speaking  and  giving  very- 
spare  ;  in  labour  patient,  in  arguing  or  disputing  grave,  in  ob- 
taining the  goods  of  this  life  studious  and  solicitous,  in  all 
manner  of  actions  austere.* 

TFTien  ill  dignified^  he  is  envious,  covetous,  jealous,  and 
mistrustful;  timorous,  sordid,  outwardly  dissembling,  sluggish, 
suspicious,  stubborn  ;  a  contemner  of  women,  a  liar,  malici- 
ous, murmuring ;  never  contented,  and  ever  repining. 

Corporature, — Most  part  of  his  body  cold  and  dry ;  of  a 
middle  stature,  his  complexion  pale,  swarthy  or  muddy  ;  his 
eyes  little  and  black,  looking  downward ;  a  broad  forehead, 
black  or  sad  hair,  and  it  hard  or  rugged ;  great  ears,  hanging, 
lowering  eyebrows,  thick  lips  and  nose  ;  a  rare  or  thin  beard, 
a  lumpish,  unpleasant  countenance,  either  holding  his  head 
forward  or  stooping ;  his  shoulders  broad  and  large,  and  many 
times  crooked ;  his  belly  somewhat  short  and  lank ;  his  thighs 
spare,  lean,  and  not  long ;  his  knees  and  feet  ill  made ;  and 
frequently  striking  against  each  other,  with  a  shuffling  gait. 

Saturn  Oriental, — ^You  must  observe,  if  Saturn  be  oriental 
of  the  Sun,  the  stature  is  more  short,  but  decent  and  well 
composed. 

Saturn  Occidental, — ^The  man  is  more  black  and  lean,  and 
fewer  hairs ;  and  again,  if  he  wants  latitude,  the  body  is  more 
lean ;  if  he  have  great  latitude,  the  body  is  more  fat  or  fleshy ;, 
if  the  latitude  be  south,  more  fleshy,  but  quick  in  motion.  If 
north,  hairy  and  much  flesh. 

P2  in  his  first  station,  a  little  fat ;  in  his  second  station,  fat, 
ill-favoured  bodies,  and  weak ;  and  this  observe  constantly  in 
all  the  other  planets. 

Quality  of  Men, — In  general   Tj  signifies  husbandmen, 

*  By  these  descriptions  is  meant,  that  persons  signified  in  horary  ques- 
tions by  this  planet  are  of  such  a  character;  and  if  he  influence  the 
native  by  being  in  the  ascendant  at  the  time  of  birth,  it  applies  also  in 
nativities. 


INTEODTJCTIOir  TO  ASTBOLOGY.  37 

downs,  beggars,  day  labourers,  old  men,  fathers,  grandfather, 
monks,  Jesuits,  sectarians. 

Employment,  —  Curriers,  night-farmers,  miners  under 
ground,  tinners,  potters,  broom  men,  plumbers,  brickmakers, 
maltsters,  chimney-sweepers,  sextons  of  churches,  bearers  of 
corpses,  scavengers,  hostlers,  colliers,  carters,  gardeners, 
ditchers,  chandlers,  dyers  of  black  cloth,  and  herdsmen, 
shepherds,  or  cow-keepers. 

Sicknesses. — ^All  impediments  in  the  right  ear,  or  teeth ;  all 
quartan  agues  proceeding  from  cold,  dry  and  melancholy  dis- 
tempers, leprosies,  consumptions,  black  jaundice,  palsies, 
tremblings,  yain  fears,  fantasies,  dropsy,  the  hand  and  foot 
gout,  apoplexies,  too  much  flux  of  the  hemorrhoids ;  and 
ruptures,  if  in  Scorpio  or  Leo,  in  any  ill  aspect  with  Venus. 

Orb. — His  orb  is  nine  degrees  before  and  after ;  that  is, 
Hb  influence  begins  to  work  when  either  he  applies  or  any 
planet  applies  to  him,  and  is  within  the  half  of  nine  degrees 
added  to  the  half  of  that  planet's  orb,  and  continues  in  force 
until  he  is  separate  an  equal  distance. 

Tears. — The  greatest  years  he  signifies  is  465.  His  greater 
57;  his  medium  years  43^;  his  least  30.  The  meaning 
whereof  is  this :  admit  we  frame  a  new  building,  erect  a  town 
or  city,  or  a  family,  or  principality  is  begun  when  Saturn  is 
essentially  and  occidentally  strong,  the  astrologer  may  pro- 
bably conjecture  the  family,  principality,  &c.  may  continue 
465  years  in  honour,  &c.  without  any  sensible  alteration.  As 
to  age,  he  relates  to  decrepit  old  men,  fathers,  grandfathers  ; 
the  like  in  plants,  trees,  and  all  living  creatures. 

Places. — He  delights  in  deserts,  woods,  obscure  Tallies, 
caves,  dens,  holes,  mountains,  or  where  men  have  been  buried, 
churchyards,  &c. ;  ruinous  buildings,  coal-mines,  sinks,  dirty 
and  stinking  places,  houses  of  office,  &c. 

Countries. — Late  authors  say  he  rules  over  Bavaria,  Saxony, 
Sdria,  Bomandiola,  Ravenna,  Constantia,  Ingoldstadt. 


38  IKTBODUCTION  TO  ASTEOLOQT. 


CHAPTER  VI. 

OP   THE   PLANET  JUPITER,   AND   HIS   SiaNIFICATlON. 

JupiTEE  is  placed  next  to  Saturn.  He  is  the  greatest  in 
appearance  to  our  eyes,  of  all  the  planets  (the  ©,  ]) ,  and  ? 
excepted) :  in  his  colour  he  is  bright,  clear,  and  of  an  azure 
hue.  In  his  motion  he  exceeds  Saturn,  finishing  his  course 
through  the  twelve  signs,  in  14  years,  314  days,  and  12  hours ; 
his  middle  motion  is  4  minutes  52  seconds.  His  greatest 
north  latitude  is  1"  38'.  His  greatest  south  latitude  is  P  40'. 
He  is  retrograde  about  120  days,  is  five  days  in  his  first 
station  before  retrogradation,  and  four  days  stationary  before 
direction. 

Nature. — He  is  a  masculine  planet,  temperately  hot  and 
moist,  and  the  greater  fortune;  author  of  temperance,  mo- 
desty, sobriety,  justice. 

Manners  and  Actions  when  well  placed. — ^Then  he  is  mag- 
nanimous, faithful,  bashful,  aspiring  in  an  honourable  way  at 
high  matters ;  in  all  his  actions  a  lover  of  fair  dealing,  de- 
siring to  benefit  all  men  ;  doing  glorious  actions ;  honourable 
and  reliffious,  of  sweet  and  afiiible  conversation,  wonderfully 
indulgent  to  his  wife  and  children,  reverencing  aged  men, 
a  great  reliever  of  the  poor,  full  of  charity  and  godliness  ; 
liberal,  hating  all  sordid  actions ;  just,  wise,  prudent,  grate- 
ful and  virtuous ;  so  that  when  you  find  %  the  significator 
of  any  man  in  question,  and  well  dignified,  you  may  judge 
hini  well  quahfied  as  aforesaid. 

When  ill  dignified, — When  %  is  unfortunate,  then  lie 
wastes  his  patrimony,  sufiers  every  one  to  cozen  him,  is  hypo- 
critically religious,  tenacious,  and  obstinate  in  maintaining 
false  tenets  in  religion;  he  is  ignorant,  careless,  nothing 
caring  for  the  love  of  his  friends ;  of  a  gross,  dull  capacity ; 


XNTBODUCTIOir  TO  ASTBOLOGY.  39 

lystemadcal^  abasing  himself  iu  all  companies,  insinuating 
and  stooping  where  no  necessity  is. 

Corporature, — He  signifies  an  upright,  straight,  and  tall 
stature ;  brown,  ruddy,  and  loYcly  complexion  ;  of  an  OYal  or 
long  visage,  and  full  or  fleshy;  high  forehead;  large  grey 
eyes ;  hair  soft,  and  a  kind  of  auburn  brown  ;  much  beard ; 
a  large  deep  belly ;  strong  proportioned  thighs  and  legs,  his 
feet  long,  being  the  most  uncomely  parts  of  his  body ;  in  his 
speech  he  is  sober,  and  of  grave  discourse. 

Oriental. — ^The  skin  more  clear,  his  complexion  honey 
colour,  or  between  a  white  and  red,  sanguine,  ruddy  colour ; 
great  eyes,  the  body  more  fleshy ;  generally  some  mole  or  scar 
on  the  right  foot. 

OcddentaL — A  pure  and  lovely  complexion,  the  stature 
more  short,  the  hair  a  light  brown,  or  near  a  dark  flaxen,  and 
smooth ;  bald  about  the  temple  or  forehead. 

Quality  in  generaL — He  signifies  judges,  senators,  coun- 
sellors, ecclesiastical  men,  bishops,  priests,  ministers,  cardi- 
nals, chancellors,  doctors  of  the  civil  law,  young  scholars  and 
students  in  an  university  or  college,  lawyers,  clothiers,  woollen 
drapers. 

Diseases. — ^Pleurisies,  all  infirmities  in  the  liver,  apoplexies, 
inflammation  of  the  lungs,  palpitation  and  trembling  of  the 
heart,  cramps,  pain  in  the  back  bone,  all  diseases  lying  in  the 
veins  or  ribs,  and  proceeding  from  corruption  of  blood ;  quin- 
zies,  flatulence  ;  all  putrefaction  in  the  blood,  or  fevers  pro- 
ceeding from  too  great  abundance  thereof. 

Places. — He  delights  in  being  near  altars  of  churches,  in 
public  conventions,  synods,  convocations ;  in  places  neat  and 
sweet ;  in  wardrobes,  courts  of  justice,  and  oratories.*  His 
greatest  years  are  428 ;  his  greater,  79 ;  his  mean,  45 ;  least,  1 2. 

*  This  impUes,  that  the  person  inquired  abont  in  a  horary  question,  if 
ligni&ed  by  % ,  frequents  such  places. 


40  UTTBODXIOTIOK  ItO  ASTKOLOaT. 

Men  of  middle  i^,  or  of  a  fail  judgment  and  dkcretioii^ 
are  described  by  him.  Babylon,  Persia,  Hungaria,  Spain, 
CuUen,  are  ruled  by  him.  * 


CHAPTER    VII. 

GE  THE   PLAl^ET  MAES,   AND    HIS    SEYEEAL    SIGNIFICATIONS. 

Maes  does  in  order  sucoeed  Jupiter,  is  less  in  body,  and 
appears  to  our  sight  of  a  shining,  fiery,  sparkling  colour  :  he 
finishes  his  course  in  the  zodiac  in  1  year,  321  days,  and  22 
hours :  his  greatest  latitude  north  is  about  4"*  31' ;  his  south, 
6**  47' ;  and  is  retrograde  80  days ;  stationary  two  or  three. 
He  governs  wholly  the  watery  triplicity,  viz.  ©,  ii\,  and  K- 

Nature, — He  is  a  masculine,  nocturncd  planet,  in  nature 
hot  and  dry,  choleric  and  fiery ;  the  lesser  infortune,  author 
of  quarrels,  strifes,  and  contentions. 

Manners  when  well  dignified, — In  feats  of  war  and  courage 
invincible,  scorning  that  any  should  exceed  him ;  subject  to 
no  reason,  bold,  confident,  immoveable,  contentious,  chal- 
lenging all  honour  to  themselves  ;  valiant,  lovers  of  war  and 
things  pertaining  thereto,  hazarding  himself  in  all  perils,  un- 
willing to  obey  or  submit  to  anybody  ;  a  boaster  of  his  own 
acts  ;  one  that  slights  all  things  in  comparison  of  victory,  and 
yet  of  prudent  behaviour  in  his  own  affairs. 

When  ill  dignified. — ^Then  he  is  a  prattler,  without  modesty 
or  honesty;  a  lover  of  slaughter  and  quarrels,  murder,  thievery, 
a  promoter  of  sedition,  ^ys,  and  commotions ;  an  highway 
thief,  as  wavering  as  the  wind,  a  traitor,  of  turbulent  spirit, 
perjured,  obscene,  rash,  inhuman,  neither  fearing  God  nor 

*  We  have  no  opinion  of  the  rule  of  the  planets  over  different  conn- 
tries :  but  in  muadane  astrologer  the  signs  which  rule  them  must  be  ob- 
served. 


IHTBODUCTION  TO  ASTBOLOGT.  41 

oaring  for  man ;  unthankfal,  treadierouB ;  oppressors,  raven- 
ous, cheaters,  furious,  and  vidient.* 

Corparature. — Generally  martialists  have  this  form ;  they 
are  but  of  middle  stature,  their  bodies  strong,  and  their  bones 
large,  rather  lean  than  fat ;  their  complexion  of  a  brown, 
ruddy  colour,  their  visage  round,  their  hair  red  or  sandy,  and 
many  tunes  msping  or  curling ;  sharp,  ha£el,  piercing  eyes ; 
a  bold  confident  countenance  ;  and  they  are  active  and  fear- 
less. 

Orient aL — He  signifies  valiant  men;  some  white  mixed 
with  their  redness,  inclined  to  be  tall,  and  of  a  hairy  body. 

Occidental, — Very  ruddy  complexion,  but  low  stature,  Uttle 
head,  smooth  body,  and  not  hairy ;  yellow  hair,  stifi*,  and  the 
natural  humours  generally  more  dry. 

Qualities  of  Men  and  their  Professions, —  Generals  of 
armies,  colonels,  captains,  or  any  soldiers  having  command 
in  armies ;  all  manner  of  soldiers,  physicians,  apothecaries, 
surgeons,  chemists,  gunners,  butchers,  marshals,  sergeants, 
bailiffs,  hangmen,  thieves,  smiths,  bakers,  armourers,  watch- 
makers, tailors,  cutlers  of  swords  and  knives,  barbers,  dyers, 
cooks,  carpenters,  gamesters,  bear-wards,  tanners,  and  cur- 
riers, according  as  ^  may  be  strong  or  weak. 

Diseases. — The  gall,  tertian  fevers,  pestilent  burning  fevers, 
meagrims  in  the  head,  carbuncles,  the  plague,  and  all  plague 
sores,  burnings,  ringworms,  blisters,  phrensies,  mad  sudden 
distempers  in  the  head,  yellow  jaundice,  bloody  fiux,  fistulas ; 
all  wounds  and  diseases  in  men's  genitals,  the  stone  both  in 
the  reins  and  bladder,  scars  or  smallpox  in  the  face.f 

*  These  extremely  evil  qualities  obtain  only  when  the  })  and  $  are 
also  very  much  afflicted. 

t  <J  coming  to  ill  aspect  of  the  ascendant  by  direction  early  in  nati- 
^nties  generally  causes  either  smallpox,  measles,  or  scarlet  fever ;  but  if  the 
nativity  denote  it,  he  may  give  hurts,  wounds,  fevers,  &c 


42  nrrBODUCTion'  to  astrology. 

Mars  causes  all  hurts  by  iron,  the  shingles,  and  such  other 
diseases  as  arise  by  too  much  choler,  anger,  or  passion. 

Places. — Smiths*  shops,  furnaces,  slaughter-houses,  places 
where  bricks  or  charcoal  are  burned,  or  have  been  burned ; 
chimneys,  and  forges.* 

His  orb  is  only  seven  degrees. 

Years.  — In  man  he  goyems  the  flourishing  time  of  youth, 
and  from  41  to  56 ;  his  greatest  year  is  264;  greater  66, 
lower  40,  and  least  15. 

Countries, — Saromatia,  Lombardy,  Batavia,  Ferraria,  Goth- 
land. 


CHAPTER   VIII. 


or   THE   SUK,   HIS  GENEBAL  AITD  PAETICULAB   SIGiaFI- 
CATIONS. 

The  Sun  is  placed  in  the  middle  of  all  the  planets,  continu- 
ally yisible  to  all  mortal  men.  He  passes  through  all  the 
twelve  signs  of  the  zodiac  in  one  year :  his  mean  motion  is 
59  minutes  8  seconds,  yet  his  diurnal  motion  ia  sometimes 
57  minutes  16  seconds,  sometimes  more,  but  never  exceeding 
61  minutes  and  6  seconds.  He  always  moves  in  the  ecliptic, 
and  is  ever  void  of  latitude.  He  has  only  the  sign  ^  for  his 
house,  and  rt::  for  his  detriment.  He  is  exalted  in  the  19th 
degree  of  T,  and  receives  his  fall  in  19*  £i. 

The  Sun  governs  the  fiery  triplicity,  viz.  T,  ft,  J^>  by 
day.  He  is  always  direct,  and  never  can  be  considered  re- 
trograde. 

In  nature. — He  is  naturally  hot  and  dry,  but  more  tem- 

*  To  this  may  be  added,  cutlers'  shops,  and  places  where  iron  is  mann- 
factured  in  any  manner,  armouries,  &c. 


uttboduction  to  astbologt.  43 

perate  than  ,^ ;  is  a  masculine,  diurnal  planet,  and  equivalent 
if  well  dignified  to  a  fortune. 

Manners  when  well  dignified. — Very  faithful,  keeping  their 
promises  with  the  greatest  punctuality ;  a  kind  of  itching  de- 
sire to  role  and  sway  wherever  he  comes.  Prudent,  and  of 
incomparable  judgment ;  of  great  majesty  and  stateliuess,  in- 
dustrious to  acquire  honour  and  a  large  patrimony,  yet  as 
willing  to  spend  it  again.  The  solar  man  usually  speaks  with 
gravity,  but  not  many  words,  and  these  with  great  confidence 
and  command  of  his  own  feelings ;  full  of  thought,  secret, 
trusty,  speaks  deUberately,  and,  notwithstanding  his  great 
heart,  he  is  affable,  tractable,  and  very  humane  to  all  people ; 
one  loving  sumptuousness  and  magnificence,  and  whatever  is 
honourable  ;  no  sordid  thoughts  can  enter  his  heart. 

When  ill  dignified, — Then  the  solar  man  is  arrogant  and 
proud,  disdaining  all  men,  boasting  of  his  pedigree ;  he  is 
purblind  in  sight  and  judgment,  restless,  troublesome,  domi- 
neering, a  mere  vapour,  expensive,  foolish,  endowed  with  no 
gravity  in  words,  or  soberness  in  actions  ;  a  spendthrift,  wast- 
ing his  patrimony,  and  hanging  on  other  men's  charity ;  yet 
he  thinks  all  men  are  bound  to  him,  because  a  gentleman 
bom. 

Corporature, — Usually  the  0  presents  a  man  of' a  good, 
large,  and  strong  corporature,  a  yellow,  saffiron  complexion, 
a  round  large  forehead,  large  goggle  eyes,  sharp  and  piercing; 
a  body  strong  and  well  composed,  not  so  beautiful  as  lovely ; 
full  of  heat,  with  hair  yellowish,  and  therefore  quickly  bald ; 
much  hair  on  their  beard,  and  usually  an  high  ruddy  com- 
plexion ;  their  bodies  fleshy ;  in  disposition  they  are  very 
bountiful,  honest,  sincere,  well-minded,  of  good  heart ;  health- 
ful constitution  ;  very  humane,  yet  sufficiently  spirited,  and 
not  loquacious. 

Oriental. — ^We  can  only  say  the  Q  is  oriental  in  the  figure. 


44  DTTBODUCTION  TO  ASTBOLOOT. 

or  in  an  oriental  quarter  of  the  figure,  or  occidental,  &c.* 
The  planets  are  oriental  when  they  rise,  or  appear  before  him 
in  the  morning,  and  occidental  when  they  set  after  him. 

Quality  of  Men,  and  their  Professions, — He  signifies,  kings, 
princes,  emperors,  &c.  dukes,  marquisses,  earls,  barons,  lieu- 
tenants, deputy  lieutenants  of  counties,  magistrates,  gentle- 
men in  general,  courtiers,  desirers  of  honour  and  preferment 
Justices  of  peace,  mayors,  high  sheriffs,  high  constables, 
stewards  of  noblemen's  houses,  the  principal  magistrate  of 
any  city,  town,  castle,  or  country  village  ;  yea,  even  a  petty 
constable,  where  no  better  is ;  goldsmiths,  braziers,  pewterers, 
coppersmiths,  and  minters  of  money. 

Sicknesses. — Pimples  in  the  face,  palpitation  or  trembling, 
diseases  of  the  brain  and  heart,  infirmities  of  the  eyes,  cramps, 
sudden  swoonings,  diseases  of  the  mouth  and  impure  breath, 
catarrhs,  putrid  fevers.  Principally  in  man  he  governs  the 
heart  and  the  brain ;  in  women,  the  vital  spirit,  and  denotes 
hysterics. 

Places. — Houses  or  courts  of  princes,  palaces,  theatres, 
all  magnificent  structures,  being  clean  and  decent ;  halls,  and 
dining  rooms. 

Orb. — Is  15  degrees. 

TeaK».  —  In  age  he  rules  youth,  or  when  one  is  at  the 
strongest;  his  greatest  years  are  1460,t  greater  120,  lesser 
69>  and  least  19. 

Countries. — Italy,  Sicily,  Bohemia,  Phenicia,  and  Chaldea. 

*  In  nativities  the  Q  and  })  are  oriental  between  the  Ist  and  10th 
houses,  and  in  the  opposite  quarter  of  the  figure ;  they  are  occidental  be« 
tween  the  10th  and  7th  houses,  and  in  the  opposite  quarter :  hut  in  horary 
questions  they  are  oriental  between  tihe  4th  and  10th,  and  occidental  after 
leaving  the  lOlli,  until  they  reach  the  4th ;  oriental  when  rising,  and 
occidental  when  setting. 

t  It  is  a  very  remarkable  fact,  that  this  period  is  the  sothic  or  canicular 
year  of  the  Egyptians  ;  whence  it  is  pretty  evident  that  these  astrological 
doctrines  came  originally  from  that  people,  and  are,  in  fact,  of  the  very 
highest  antiquity. 


On^ODUCTION  TO  ASTBOLOOT*  45 


CHAPTER   IX. 

or  THE  PLAJfET   VEIOJS,   AND   HER   SEVEEAL   SIGinTICATIONS 
JlSTD   ITATUBE. 

Name, — After  the  Sun  sticceedeth  Venus. 

Colour  in  the  Element, — She  is  of  a  bright,  shining  colour, 
and  is  well  known  by  the  name  of  the  evening  star,  or 
Hesperus  ;  and  that  is  when  she  appears  after  the  Sun  is  set ; 
she  is  commonly  called  the  morning  star,  but  by  the  learned 
Lucifer,  when  she  is  seen  long  before  the  rising  of  the  Sun. 
Her  mean  motion  is  59  minutes  and  8  seconds  ;  her  diurnal 
motion  is  sometimes  62  minutes  a-day,  and  82  minutes  she 
never  exceeds.  Her  greatest  latitude  is  9**  2'.  She  is  retro- 
grade 42  days,  and  stationary  2.  Her  year  is  224  days  and 
7  hours. 

Element, — She  is  a  feminine  planet,  temperately  cold  and 
moist;  nocturnal,  the  lesser  fortune,  author  of  mirth  and 
cheerfulness. 

Manners  and  Quality  when  well  dignified, — She  signifies 
a  quiet  man,  not  given  to  law,  quarrel,  or  wrangling ;  not 
vicious ;  pleasant,  neat  and  spruce,  loving  mirth  in  his  words 
and  actions,  cleanly  in  apparel,  rather  drinking  much  than 
gluttonous ;  prone  to  venery,  often  entangled  in  love  matters, 
zealous  in  their  affections,  musical,  delighting  in  baths  and 
all  honest  merry  meetings,  or  amusements  and  theatricals; 
easy  of  belief,  and  not  given  to  labour,  or  take  any  pains  ;  a 
company  keeper,  cheerful,  nothing  mistrustful,  a  right  vir- 
tuous man  or  woman,  often  jealous,  yet  without  cause. 

When  ill  dignified, — Then  he  is  riotous,  expensive,  wholly 
given  to  dissipation  and  lewd  companies  of  women,  nothing 
r^arding  his  reputation,  coveting  unlawful  beds,  incestuous^ 


46  rSTTRODUCTION  TO  ASTBOLOGT. 

an  adulterer,  fantastical,  a  mere  skip-jack,  of  no  faith,  no 
repute,  no  credit,  spending  his  means  in  ale-houses,  taverns, 
and  among  scandalous  loose  people ;  a  mere  lazy  companion, 
nothing  careful  of  the  things  of  this  life,  or  any  thing  re- 
ligious. 

Corporature, — A  man  of  fair  hut  not  tall  stature,  his  com- 
plexion being  white,  tending  to  a  little  darkness'''  which 
makes  him  more  lovely,  very  fair,  lovely  eyes,  and  sometimes 
black ;  a  round  face  and  not  large,  fair  hair,  smooth  and 
plenty  of  it,  and  it  is  usually  of  a  light  brown  colour ;  a 
lovely  mouth  and  cherry  lips,  the  face  pretty  fleshy,  a  rolling 
wandering  eye,  a  body  very  dehghtful,  lovely,  and  exceedingly 
well  shaped  ;  one  desirous  of  trimming  and  making  him- 
self neat  and  complete  both  in  clothes  and  body,  a  love 
dimple  in  his  cheeks,f  a  stedfast  eye,  and  full  of  amorous 
enticements. 

OrientaL — When  oriental,  the  body  inclines  to  tallness  or 
a  kind  of  upright  straightness  in  person  ;  not  corpulent  or 
very  tall,  but  neatly  composed ;  a  right  Venus  person  is  a 
pretty,  complete,  handsome  man  or  woman. 

Occidental. — ^When  she  is  occidental,  the  man  is  more  short 
in  stature,  yet  very  decent  and  comely  in  shape  and  form, 
well  liked  of  all. 

Quality  of  Persons,  and  Employments. — Musicians,  gamesters^ 
silkmen,  mercers,  linen-drapers,  painters,  jewellers,  players, 
lapidaries,  embroiderers^  woman-tailors,  wives,  mothers,  vir- 
gins, choristers,  fiddlers,  pipers :  when  joined  with  the  ]) , 
ballad-singers,  perfumers,  seamstresses,  picture-drawers,  en- 
gravers, upholsterers,  limners,  glovers,  and  such  as  sell  those 

*  This  signifies  a  pale  or  wan  complexion,  yet  with  a  dark  hue. 

t  Those  who  have  Venus  strong,  either  in  their  nativities,  or  as  their 
gignificators  in  questions,  invarial»ly  have  dimples  dther  in  the  cheek  or 
chin. 


ETTEODUCTIOir  TO  ASTEOLOGT.  47 

commodities  which  adorn  women,  either  in  body  (as  clothes) 
or  in  face  (as  complexion  waters). 

Sicknesses. — Diseases  by  her  signified  are  principally  in  the 
matrix  and  members  of  generation  ;  in  the  reins,  belly,  back, 
navel,  and  those  parts ;  the  gonorrhoea  or  running  of  the 
reins,  lues  yenerea  or  any  disease  arising  from  inordinate  lust, 
priapism,  impotency  in  generation,  hernias,  &c.,  the  diabetes, 
or  an  involuntary  discharge  of  urine. 

Orb, — Her  orb  is  7  degrees. 

Tears. — Her  greatest  years  are  151  ;  her  greater  82,  her 
mean  45,  her  least  8.  In  man  she  governs  youth  from  14 
to  28. 

Countries. — ^Arabia,  Austria,  Campania,  Vienna,  Polonia  the 
Greater,  Turin,  Parthia,  Media,  Cyprus.* 


CHAPTER   X. 


OF  MEEOUET,    AND  HIS   SIGNIPICATIOK,   NATFEE,   AND 
PEOPEETT. 

MiRcuET  is  the  least  of  all  the  planets,  never  distant  from 
the  Sun  above  28  degrees ;  by  which  reason  he  is  seldom 
vi«ible  to  our  sight. 

Colour  and  Motion, — He  is  of  a  dusky  silver  colour ;  his 
mean  motion  is  59  minutes  and  8  seconds,  but  he  is  some- 
times so  swift,  that  he  moves  above  1  degree  and  40  minutes 
in  one  day.  He  is  stationary  one  day,  retrograde  twenty- 
foor  days.     His  year  is  87  days  and  23  hours. 

*  These  observations  are  retained  from  respect  to  our  author ;  but  we 
mnst  repeat,  that  it  is  ((  and  £k,  the  houses  of  ? ,  which  govern  these 
coontries. 


48  iNmoDircTioK  to  astbologt. 

Latitude,  —  His  greatest  south  latitude  is  3  degrees  35 
minutes,  greatest  north  latitude  3  degrees  33  minutes. 

Nature, — We  may  not  call  him  either  mascuUne  or  femi- 
nine, for  he  is  either  the  one  or  the  other  as  joined  to  any 
planet ;  for  if  in  (5  with  a  masculine  planet,  he  becomes 
masculine :  *  if  with  a  feminine,  then  feminine ;  but  of  his 
own  nature  he  is  cold  and  dry,  and  therefore  melancholy : 
with  the  good  he  is  good,  with  the  evil  planets,  ill ;  he  is 
author  of  subtlety,  tricks,  devices,  perjury,  &c. 

Manners  when  well  dignified, — ^Beiug  well  dignified,  he  re- 
presents a  man  of  a  subtle  and  poMtical  brain  and  intellect, 
an  excellent  disputant  or  logician,  arguing  with  learning  and 
discretion,  and  using  much  eloquence  in  his  speech ;  a  searcher 
into  all  kinds  of  mysteries  and  learning,  sharp  and  witty, 
learning  almost  any  thing  without  a  teacher ;  ambitious  of 
being  exquisite  in  every  science,  desirous  naturally  to  travel 
and  see  foreign  parts ;  a  man  of  an  unwearied  fancy,  curious 
in  the  search  of  any  occult  knowledge,  able  by  his  own  genius 
to  produce  wonders,  given  to  divination  and  the  more  secret 
knowledge.  If  he  turn  merchant,  no  man  exceeds  him  in 
way  of  trade,  or  invention  of  new  ways  whereby  to  obtain 
wealth. 

Manners  when  ill  dignified, — A  troublesome  wit,  a  kind 
of  phrenetic  man,  his  tongue  and  pen  against  every  man ; 
wholly  bent  to  fool  his  estate  and  time  in  loquacity  and  trying 
nice  conclusions  to  no  purpose,  a  great  liar,  boaster,  prattler, 
busybody ;  false ;  a  tale-carrier,  addicted  to  wicked  arts,  as 
necromancy,  and  such  like  ungodly  knowledges ;  easy  of  be- 
lief, an  ass  or  very  idiot,  constant  in  no  place  or  ofMnion, 
cheating  and  thieving  everywhere  ;  a  newsmonger,  pretending 
all  manner  of  knowledge,  but  void  of  true  or  solid  learning ; 

*  This  applies  to  aspects  also ;  but,  of  course,  only  in  horary  questions. 


nrrBODUcnoir  to  AsrsoLOor.  49 

a  trifler,  a  mere  £rantic  fellow ;  if  be  prove  a  divine,  then  a 
mere  verbal  fellow,  frothy,  of  no  judgment,  easily  perverted, 
constant  in  nothing  but  idle  words  and  bragging. 

Corporature, — Generally  he  denotes  one  of  an  high  stature, 
and  straight,  thin,  spare  body ;  a  high  forehead,  and  some- 
what narrow  long  face,  long  nose,  fair  eyes,  neither  perfectly 
black  nor  grey,  thin  Ups  and  nose,  little  hair  on  the  chin,  but 
much  on  his  head,  and  of  a  sad  brown  inclining  to  blackness ; 
long  arms,  fingers,  and  hands ;  his  complexion  like  an  olive 
or  chesnut  colour.  You  must  observe  $  more  than  all  the 
planets ;  for  having  any  aspect  to  a  planet,  he  partakes  more 
of  the  influence  of  that  planet  than  any  other  does  ;  if  with 
f2,then  heavy;  with  1/,  more  temperate;  with  (J,  more 
rash;  with  ©,  more  genteel;  with  ?,  more  jesting;  with 
]) ,  more  changeable. 

Oriental. — ^When  he  is  oriental,  his  complexion  is  honey- 
colour^  or  like  one  sunburnt ;  in  the  stature  of  his  body  not 
very  high,  but  well  jointed ;  small  eyes,  not  much  hair ;  in 
very  truth,  according  to  the  height  of  body,  very  well  com- 
posed, but  still  a  defect  in  the  complexion,  swarthy  brown, 
and  in  the  tongue  all  for  his  own  interest. 

Occidental, — When  occidental,  a  tawny  visage,  lank  body, 
small  slender  Umbs,  hollow  eyes,  either  sparkling,  red  or 
fiery ;  the  whole  frame  of  body  inclining  to  dryness. 

Quality  of  Men  and  Professions, — He  generally  signifies 
all  Uterary  men,  philosophers,  mathematicians,  astrologians,"*" 
merchants,  secretaries,  writers,  sculptors,  poets,  orators,  advo- 
cates, schoolmasters,  stationers,  printers,  exchangers  of  money, 
attorneys,  ambassadors,  commissioners,  clerks,  artificers, 
generally  accomptants,  soUcitors  ;  sometimes  thieves,  prattling 
ministers,  busy  secretaries,  and  they  unlearned;  gram- 
marians, tailors,  carriers,  messengers,  footmen,  usurers. 

*  This  more  especially  if  witM  or  in  good  aspect  to  Hersehel. 


50  iin»ODxroTioir  to  astbology. 

Sickness. — ^All  vertigos,  lethargies,  of  giddiness  in  the  head ; 
madness,  either  lightness  or  any  disease  of  the  hrain; 
phthisic ;  all  stammering  and  imperfection  in  the  tongue, 
vain  and  fond  imaginations,  all  defects  in  the  memory,  hoarse- 
ness, dry  coughs,  too  great  abundance  of  spittle,  all  snaffling 
and  snuffling  in  the  head  or  nose ;  the  hand  and  feet  gout, 
dumbness,  foul  or  diseased  tongue  ;  all  evils  in  the  fancy  and 
intellectual  parts. 

Orb, — His  orb  is  7  degrees. 

Tears. — His  greatest  years  are  450,  his  greater  76,  his 
mean  48,  his  little  or  least  20. 

Countries. — He  has  Grecia,  Flanders,  Egypt.  Of  towns. 
Fans. 


CHAPTER    XI. 

or  THE   MOOK,    HEE  PEOPEETIES  AND   SIGKIFICATIONS. 

Name. — ^The  Moon  we  find  called  by  the  ancients  Lucina, 
Cynthia,  Diana,  Phoebe,  Latona,  Noctiluca,  Proserpina  ;'*'  she 
is  nearest  to  the  earth  of  all  the  planets. 

Motion. — She  terminates  her  course  through  the  whole 
twelve  signs  in  27  days,  7  hours,  43  minutes,  5  seconds  ;  her 
mean  motion  is  13  degrees,  10  minutes,  and  36  seconds ;  but 
she  moves  sometimes  less  and  sometimes  more,  never  exceed- 
ing 15  degrees  and  12  minutes  in  24  hours'  time. 

Latitude. — Her  greatest  north  latitude  is  5  degrees  and  1 7 
minutes.  Her  greatest  south  latitude  5  degrees  and  12 
minutes.  She  is  never  retrograde  ;  but  when  she  is  slow  in 
motion,  and  goes  less  in  24  hours  than  13  degrees  and  1 1 
minutes ;  she  is  then  equivalent  to  a  retrograde  planet. 

*  These  names  prove  the  various  mythological  fobles  to  have  had  their 
origin  in  the  ancient  astrology  of  the  Egyptians. 


INTBODXrcnOK  TO  A8TB0L06T.  51 

Nature. — She  is  a  feminine^  nocturnal  planet ;  cold*  moist, 
and  phlegmatic. 

Manners  when  well  placed  or  dignified. — She  signifies  one 
of  composed  manners,  a  soft  tender  creature,  a  loyer  of  all 
honest  and  ingenious  sciences,  a  searcher  of  and  delighter  in 
novelties,  naturally  inclined  to  flit  and  shift  his  habitation ; 
unsteadfast,  wholly  caring  for  the  present  times ;  timorous 
prodigal,  and  easily  frightened ;  loving  peace,  however,  and  to 
Uve  free  from  the  cares  of  this  life.  If  a  mechanic,  the  man 
learns  many  occupations,  and  frequently  will  be  tampering 
with  many  ways  to  trade  in. 

When  ill. — ^A  mere  vagabond,  idle  person,  hating  labour  ; 
a  drunkard*  a  sot,  one  of  no  spirit  or  forecast,  delighting  to 
live  beggarly  and  carelessly;  one  content  in  no  condition  of 
life,  either  good  or  ill. 

Corporature. — She  generally  presents  a  man  of  fair  stature, 
whitely  coloured;  the  face  round,  grey  eyes,  and  a  httle 
lowering ;  much  hair  both  on  the  head,  face,  and  other  parts  ; 
usually  one  eye  a  Uttle  larger  than  the  other ;  short  hands  and 
fleshy ;  the  whole  body  inclining  to  be  fleshy,  plump,  cor- 
pilent,  and  phlegmatic.  If  she  be  impedited  of  the  Q  in  a 
nativity  or  question,  she  usually  signifies  some  blemish  in  or 
near  the  eye ;  a  blemish  near  the  eye,  if  she  be  impedited  in 
succeedent  houses ;  in  the  sight,  if  she  be  unfortunate  in 
angles,  and  with  fixed  stars  called  nebulae. 

Qualities  of  Men  and  Women. — She  signifies  queens, 
countesses,  ladies,  all  manner  of  women,  as  also  the  common 
people,  travellers,  pilgrims,  sailors,  fishermen,  fishmongers, 
brewers,  tapsters,  publicans,  letter  carriers,  coachmen,  hunts- 
men, messengers,  mariners,  millers,  maltsters,  drunkards, 
oysterwives,  fishwomen,  charwomen,  tripewomen,  and  gene- 
rally such  women  as  carry  commodities  in  the  streets;  as 

E  2 


52  IKTBODXrCTIOIT  TO  ASTEOLOGT. 

also  midwiyes^  nurses,  &c. ;  hackneymen,  watennen,  water- 
bearers.* 

Sickness. — Apoplexies,  palsy,  the  cholic,  the  stomach-ache, 
diseases  in  the  left  side,  the  bladder  and  members  of  genera- 
tion ;  the  menstnies  and  liver  in  women,  dropsies,  fluxes  of 
the  belly,  all  cold  rheumatic  diseases,  cold  stomach,  the  goat 
in  the  wrists  and  feet ;  sciatica,  worms,  hurts  in  the  eyes, 
surfeits,  rotten  coughs,  convulsiye  fits,  the  falling  sickness, 
king's  evil,  abscess,  smallpox,  and  measles. 

Orb, — Is  12  degrees. 

Tears, — Her  greatest  years  are  320,  greater  108,  mean  66, 
least  25. 

Countries. — Holland,  Zealand,  Denmark,  Nuremberg,  Flan- 
ders. 


CHAPTER    XII. 


ITie  Head  of  the  Bragon, — The  head  of  the  Dragon  is 
masculine,  of  the  nature  of  %  and  ? ,  and  of  himself  a  for- 
tune.f 

The  Tail  of  the  Br  agon.— 1^%  Tail  of  the  Dragon  by  na- 
ture is  quite  contrary  to  the  Head,  for  he  is  evil.  I  ever  found 
the  8  equivalent  to  either  of  the  fortunes,  and,  when  joined 
with  the  evil  planets,  to  lessen  their  malevolent  signification  ; 
when  joined  with  the  good,  to  increase  the  good  promised  by 
them.  The  Tail  of  the  Dragon  I  always,  in  my  practice, 
found,  when  he  was  joined  by  the  evil  planets,  their  malice 
or  the  evil  intended  thereby  was  doubled  and  trebled,  or  ex- 

*  Generally,  all  persons  who  are  connected  with  liquids  in  their  occu- 
pstion. 

t  These  points  are  of  no  consequence  In  nativities,  except  as  regards 
the  Moon,  who  hrings  benefits  when  she  reaches  the  fi  in  the  zodiac  by 
directional  motion,  and  e^il  when  she  reaches  the  Q . 


rBTTBODUOTION  TO  ASTBOLOGY.  53 

tremely  augmented,  &c. ;  and  when  he  chanced  to  be  in  oon- 
janction  with  any  of  the  fortunes  who  were  significators  in 
the  question,  though  the  matter  by  the  principal  significator 
was  fairly  promised  and  hkely  to  be  perfected  in  a  small  time, 
yet  did  there  ever  fall  out  many  rubs  and  disturbances,  much 
wrangling  and  controyersy,  that  the  business  was  many  times 
given  over  for  desperate  before  a  perfect  conclusion  could  be 
had ;  and  unless  the  principal  significators  were  angular,  and 
well  fortified  with  essential  dignities,  many  times  unexpectedly 
the  whole  matter  came  to  nothing. 


CHAPTER  XIII. 


AirOTHEB  BBEBF  DESCBIFTIOS'  OE  THE  SHAPES  AKD  EOBHS  OF 
THE  PLANETS. 

HerscheL — This  is  the  most  distant  planet  from  the  Sun  ; 
his  motion  is  very  slow,  as  he  takes  83  years  151  days  to  go 
through  the  twelve  signs.  The  nature  of  ^  is  extremely  evil. 
If  he  ascend  or  be  with  the  chief  significator  in  any  figure, 
he  denotes  an  eccentric  person,  far  from  fortunate,  always 
abrupt,  and  often  violent  in  his  manners.  If  well  aspected, 
he  ^ves  sudden  and  unexpected  benefits ;  and  if  afflicted,  he 
will  cause  remarkable  and  unlooked-for  losses  and  misfortunes. 
He  is  not  so  powerfdl  as  Saturn  or  Mars,  yet  can  do  much 
evil.  Persons  under  his  influence  are  partial  to  antiquity, 
astrology,  &c.,  and  all  uncommon  studies,  especially  if  Mer- 
cory  and  the  Moon  be  in  aspect  to  him.  They  are  likely  to 
strike  out  novelties,  and  to  be  remarkable  for  an  inventive 
faculty.  They  are  generally  unfortunate  in  marriage,  espe- 
cially if  he  afflict  $ ,  the  }) ,  or  the  seventh  house,  either  in 
nativities  or  questions. 


54  INTBODironON  TO  ASTBOLOaX. 

Saturn — Signifies  one  of  a  swarthy  colour,  palish  like  lead, 
or  of  a  black  earthly  brown ;  one  of  rough  skin,  thick  and 
yery  hairy  on  the  body,  small  eyes ;  many  times  his  com- 
plexion is  between  black  and  yellow,  or  as  if  he  had  an  affec- 
tion of  the  black  or  yellow  jaundice ;  he  is  lean,  crooked,  or 
beetle-browed ;  a  thin  weak  beard ;  great  lips,  like  negroes  ; 
he  looks  to  the  ground,*  is  slow  in  motion,  either  is  bow- 
legged  or  hits  one  leg  or  knee  against  another ;  most  part  a 
disagreeable  breath,  seldom  free  from  a  cough ;  he  is  crafty 
for  his  own  interest,  seducing  people  to  his  opinion;  full 
of  revenge  and  malice,  little  caring  for  religion ;  is  a  foul, 
nasty,  sloyenly  knave,  or  a  harlot,  a  great  eater  and  glutton, 
a  brawling  fellow  ;  has  broad,  great  shoulders  ;  is  covetous, 
and  yet  seldom  rich,  ftc.f 

Jupiter, — ^We  must  describe  If.  and  a  jovialist  to  be  one  of 
a  comely  stature,  full-faced,  full-eyed,  a  sanguine  complexion, 
or  mixture  of  white  and  red ;  a  large  space  between  his  eye- 
brows ;  usually  his  beard  is  of  a  flaxen  or  sandy-flaxen  colour ; 
sometimes  also,  when  l/.  is  combust,  very  sad  or  black ;  his 
hair  thick,  his  eyes  not  black ;  good  broad,  well-set  teeth, 
but  usually  some  mark  of  difference  in  the  two  fore  teeth, 
either  by  their  standing  awry,  or  some  blackness  or  imper- 
fection in  them ;  his  hair  gently  curls  (if  he  be  in  a  fiery 
sign)  ;  a  man  well  spoken,  religious,  or  at  least  a  good  moral 
honest  man ;  a  person  comely,  and  somewhat  fat  (if  1/  he  in 
moist  signs),  fleshy ;  if  in  airy  signs,  large  and  strong ;  if  in 
earthly  signs,  a  man  usually  well  descended ;  but  if  he  be  ^ 
significator,  if  an  ordinary  clown,  as  sometimes  he  may  be, 
then  is  he  of  more  humanity  than  usual  in  such  kind  of  men. 

*  This  downward  look,  keeping  the  eyes  on  the  earth,  is  one  of  the 
most  remarkable  circumstances  in  the  character  of  the  persons  described 
by  Saturn,  or  who  have  him  in  the  ascendant  at  birth. 

t  These  evil  qualities  when  Saturn  is  weak  and  afflicted. 


nrntODFonoN  to  astsologt.  55 

Mars, — ^A  martial  man  is  miany  times  full-faced,  with  a 
lively,  high  colour,  like  sun-homt,  or  like  raw  tanned  leather ; 
a  fierce  countenance,  his  eyes  being  sparkling  or  sharp  and 
darting,  and  of  yellow  colour ;  his  hair,  both  of  head  and 
beard,  being  reddish  (but  herein  you  must  vary  according 
to  the  sign).  In  fiery  signs,  and  airy,  where  (J  ftdls  to  be 
with  fixed  stars  of  his  own  nature,  there  shews  a  deep  sandy 
red  colour ;  but  in  watery  signs,  being  with  fixed  stars  of  his 
own  nature,  he  is  of  a  fiaxen  or  whitish  bright  hair ;  if  in 
earthy  signs,  the  hair  is  like  a  sad  brown,  or  of  a  chesnut 
colour.  He  has  a  mark  or  scar  on  his  face ;  is  broad-shoul- 
dered, a  sturdy,  strong  body,  being  bold  and  proud,  given  to 
mockery  and  scom^  to  quarrel,  drink,  game,  and  wench; 
which  you  may  easily  know  by  the  sign  he  is  in  :  if  in  the 
house  of  $ ,  he  wenches  ;  in  that  of  $ ,  he  steals ;  but  if  he 
be  in  his  own  house,  he  quarrels  ;  in  that  of  ^ ,  is  dogged  ; 
in  the  ©'s,  is  lordly ;  in  the  ])  's,  is  a  drunkard. 

The  Sun. — ^The  Sun  generally  denotes  one  of  an  obscure 
white  colour,  mixed  with  red ;  a  round  face,  and  short  chin, 
a  fair  stature,  and  one  of  a  comely  body ;  his  colour  some- 
tunes  between  yeUow  and  black,  but  for  the  most  part  more 
sanguine  than  otherwise  ;  a  bold  man,  and  resolute ;  his  hair 
curling ;  he  has  a  white  and  tender  skin ;  one  desirous  of 
praise,  fsune,  and  estimation  among  men ;  he  has  a  clear  voice, 
and  great  head;  his  teeth  somewhat  distorted  or  obliquely 
set ;  of  slow  speech,  but  of  a  composed  judgment ;  using 
outwardly  a  great  decorum  iu  his  actions,  but  privately  he  is 
lasdvious  and  prone  to  many  vices. 

Ferns. — ^Whoever  is  signified  by  Venus,  whether  man  or 
woman,  has  a  good  and  fair  round  visage,  a  fiill  eye,  usually 
we  say  goggle-eyed :  red  ruddy  hps,  the  nether  more  thick  or 
longer  than  the  npper ;  the  eyehds  black,  yet  lovely  and  grace- 
M ;  the  hair  of  lovely  colour,  (but  most  part  according  to 


56  UTTBODTJOTIOK  TO  iiSTEOLOGT. 

the  Bigd  ^18  before  repeated) ;  in  some  it  is  coal  black,  in 
others  a  light  brown ;  a  soft  smooth  hair ;  and  the  body  ex- 
tremely well  shaped,  even  rather  inclining  to  shortness  than 
tallness,* 

Mercury, — ^We  describe  Mercury  to  be  a  man  neither  black 
nor  white,  but  between  both,  of  a  sad  brown  or  dark  yellow 
colour ;  long  yisaged,  high  forehead,  black  or  grey  eyes,  a 
thin,  long,  sharp  nose ;  thin  spare  beard,  (many  times  none 
at  all)  of  an  auburn  sad  colour,  next  to  black ;  slender  of 
body,  small  legs ;  a  prattling,  busy  fellow ;  and  in  walking 
he  goes  nimbly,  and  always  would  be  thought  to  be  full  of 
action. 

The  Moon, — She,  by  reason  of  her  swiftness,  varies  her 
shape  very  often,  but,  in  general,  she  personates  one  having 
a  round  visage  and  full  face,  in  whose  complexion  you  may 
perceive  a  mixture  of  white  and  red,  but  paleness  overcomes  : 
if  she  be  in  fiery  signs,  the  man  or  woman  speaks  hastily ; 
in  watery  signs,  he  or  she  has  some  freckles  in  his  or  her  face, 
or  is  blub-cheeked,  not  a  handsome  body,  but  a  muddling 
creature ;  and  unless  very  well  dignified,  she  ever  signifies  an 
ordinary  vulgar  person. f 

*  We  have  always  observed  that  Venus  causes  dimples  and  a  smiling 
face. 

t  We  have  given  these  descriptions  in  addition  to  the  former^  as  it 
is  most  material  for  the  student  to  be  able  to  describe  the  person  inquired 
of  well ;  as,  by  that  means,  the  character  being  known,  his  conduct  may 
be  more  accurately  foreseen. 


nTTBODTJCTIOir  TO  ASTEOLOGY.  57 

CHAPTER  XIV. 

THE  COLOTJBS  OP  THE  PLAITBTS  AITD   SIONS. 

^  Gives  black  colour ;  l/.  a  colour  mixed  with  red  and  green ; 
(f  red,  or  iron  colour  ;  0  yellow  or  yellow  purple ;  ?  white 
or  purple  colour,;  ^  sky  colour,  or  blueish :  })  a  colour  spotted 
with  white,  and  other  mixed  colours. 

T  White  mixed  with  red ;  0  white  mixed  with  lemon ; 
n  white  mixed  with  red ;  s  green  or  russet ;  SI  red  or  green; 
TBjl  black  speckled  with  blue ;  ^  black  or  dark  crimson,  or 
tawny  colour ;  Ti\  brown ;  f  yeUow,  or  a  green  sanguine ; 
Yf  black  or  russet,  or  a  swarthy  brown  ;  tstj  a  sky  colour  with 
blue ;  K  white,  glistening  colour.* 


CHAPTER  XV. 


the  itatuee,   place,   cotjnteies,    oeioibal  desoeiptioit, 
airj}  diseases  signieibd  by  the  twelve  siqks. 

Abies 
Is  a  masculine,  diurnal  sign,  moveable,  cardinal,  equinoctial ; 
in  nature  fiery,  hot  and  dry,  choleric,  bestial,  luxurious,  in- 
temperate, and  violent ;  the  diurnal  house  of  (^  ;  of  the  fiery 
triplicity,  and  of  the  east. 

BUetuea, —  All  gumboils,  swellings,  pimples  in  the  face, 
smallpox,  hair  lips,  polypus,  ringworms,  falling  sickness,  apo* 
plezies,  megrims,  tooth-ache,  head-ache,  and  baldness. 

Places  T  signifies. — ^Where  sheep  and  cattle  do  feed,  sandy 
or  hilly  grounds  ;  a  place  of  refuge  for  thieves,  (as  unfre- 
quented places) ;  in  houses,  the  covering,  ceiling,  or  plaster- 

*  Like  a  fish  just  taken  out  of  the  water. 


58  nrrEODTrcTiON  to  ASTBOLOGr. 

ing ;  a  stable  for  small  beasts  ;  lands  newly  taken  in  or  re- 
cently ploughed,  or  where  bricks  or  lime  has  been  burnt. 

Description  of  the  Body  or  Shape  T  represents.  —  A  dry 
body,  not  exceeding  in  height ;  lean  or  spare,  but  lusty  bones, 
and  his  limbs  strong  ;  the  visage  long,  black  eye-brows,  a  long 
scraggy  neck,  thick  shoulders  ;  the  complexion  dusky,  brown 
or  swarthy. 

Countries  ruled  by  T.  —  England,  Germany,  Denmark, 
Lesser  Poland,  Palestine,  Syria,  Naples. — Towns :  Florence, 
Yerona,  Padua,  Marseilles,  Burgundy,  Saragossa,  Bergamo. 

Tatteus. 

Qualities  of  the  Siffn  Q . —  It  is  an  earthy,  cold,  dry,  melan- 
choly, feminine,  nocturnal,  fixed,  bestial  sign  ;  oi  the  earthy 
triphcity,  and  south ;  the  night  house  of  Venus. 

Diseases. — ^The  king's  evil,  sore  throats,  wens,  fluxes  c^ 
rheums  falling  into  the  throat,  quinzies,  abscesses  in  those 
parts. 

Places. — Stables  where  horses  are,  low  houses,  houses  where 
the  implements  of  cattle  are  laid  up;  pasture  or  feeding 
grounds,  where  no  houses  are  near  ;  plain  grounds,  or  where 
bushes  have  lately  been  eradicated,  and  wherein  wheat  and 
corn  are  substituted;  some  little  trees  not  far  off;  in  houses, 
cellars,  low  rooms. 

Shape  and  Description. — It  represents  one  of  a  short,  but 
fuU,  strong  and  well-set  stature ;  a  broad  forehead ;  great 
eyes,  large  swarthy  face,  and  broad  strong  shoulders ;  great 
mouth,  and  thick  hps  ;  gross  hands ;  black,  rugged  hair. 

Countries  ruled  by  Q . — Ireland,  Persia,  Great  Poland,  Asia 
Minor,  the  Archipelago,  and  the  southern  parts  of  Russia. — 
Toums :  Dublin,  Mantua,  Leipsic,  Parma,  Franconia,  Lorraine: 
also  the  islands  of  Cyprus  and  Samos,  and  the  port  and  vicinity 
of  Navarino. 


rcnatoPTJCTiON  to  asteologt.  59 


Gemiki. 

Quality  and  Property  of  n  • — It  is  an  aerial,  hot,  moist, 
sangaine,  diomal,  common  or  double-bodied  human  sign; 
the  diurnal  house  of  $  ;  of  the  airy  triplicity,  western,  mas- 
culine. 

Diseases. — It  signifies  all  diseases,  accidents,  or  infirmities 
in  the  arms,  shoulders,  or  hands  ;  corrupted  blood,  windiness 
in  the  yeins,  distempered  fancies,  and  nervous  diseases. 

P/acef. — ^Wainscot  of  rooms,  plaistering,  and  walls  of 
houses ;  the  halls,  or  where  play  is  used;  hills  and  mountains, 
barns,  storehouses  for  com,  coffers,  chests  and  high  places. 

Countries  ruled  by  n .  — North  America,  Lower  Egypt, 
Lombardy,  Sardinia,  Brabant,  Belgium,  West  of  England. — 
Toms:  London  (especially  n  17°  54'),  Versailles,  Mentz, 
Bruges,  Louvaine,  Cordova,  New  York,  and  Nuremberg. 

Description, — An  upright,  tall,  straight  body,  either  in  man 
or  ▼Oman ;  the  complexion  sanguine,  not  clear,  but  obscure 
and  dark;  long  arms,  yet  many  times  the  hands  and  feet  short, 
and  very  fleshy  ;  a  dark  hair,*  almost  black  ;  a  strong,  active 
body,  a  good  piercing  hazel  eye,  and  wanton,  and  of  perfect 
and  quick  sight ;  of  excellent  understanding,  and  judicious 
in  worldly  affidrs. 

Caiicee. 

(iuality  and  Property  of  s . — It  is  the  only  house  of  the 
Moon,  and  is  the  first  sign  of  the  watery  triplicity ;  is  a 
▼itery,  cold,  moist,  phlegmatic,  feminine,  nocturnal,  move- 
able sign ;  mute,  and  slow  of  voice  ;  fruitftJ,  northern. 

*  Ib  an  cases,  I  think  the  hair  will  be  found  to  be  of  the  colour  given 
by  the  plsnet  near  to  or  aspecting  closely  the  degree  ascending,  or  on  the 
«ttp  oC  the  house  which  signifies  the  party.  I  find  that  n  more  fre- 
^PKBtlj  gives  brown  hair  in  questions. — Zad. 


60  XNTEODUCTIOir  TO  ASTEOLOGY. 

Diseases,  —  It  signifies  imperfections  all  oyer,  or  in  the 
breast,  stomach,  and  paps;  weak  digestion,  cold  stomach, 
phthisic,  salt  phlegms,  rotten  coughs,  dropsical  humours,  im- 
posthumations  in  the  stomach,  cancers,*  which  are  mostly  in 
the  breast. 

Places. — ^The  sea,  great  rivers,  navigable  rivers ;  but  in  in- 
land countries  it  denotes  places  near  rivers,  brooks,  springs, 
wells,  cellars  in  houses,  wash-houses^  marsh-grounds,  ditches 
with  rushes,  sedges,  sea  banks,  trenches,  cisterns. 

Shape  and  Description. — Generally  a  low  and  small  stature, 
the  upper  parts  larger  than  the  lower  ;  a  round  visage ;  sickly, 
pale,  and  white  complexion  ;  the  haba^gad  brown  ;  httle  eyes; 
prone  to  have  many  children,  if  a  woman. 

Countries  ruled  by  s . — Holland,  Scotland,  Zealand,  Georgia, 
and  all  Africa. — Towns :  Constantinople,  Tunis,  Algiers,  Am- 
sterdam, Cadiz,  Venice,  Genoa,  York,  St.  Andrews,  Manchester, 
New  York,  Bern,  Lubeck,  Milan,  and  Vicentia. 

Leo. 

Quality  and  Property  of  SI  • — It  is  the  only  house  of  the 
Sun ;  by  nature,  fiery,  hot,  dry,  choleric ;  diurnal,  command- 
ing, bestial,t  barren  ;  of  the  east,  and  fiery  triphcity ;  mas- 
culine. 

Diseases. — ^All  sicknesses  in  the  ribs  and  sides,  as  pleuri- 

*  There  is  little  doubt  that  this  disease  took  its  name  from  the  astrolo- 
gical fact,  that  the  sign  S  rules  the  breast,  in  which  it  generally  occurs. 
Persons  bom  with  this  sign  ascending  have  always  some  defect,  scar,  mark, 
or  disease  in  the  breast, — Zad. 

t  This  term  signifies,  that  if  a  person  be  bom  under  or  signified  by  this 
sign,  or  if  they  have  })  therein,  and  at  all  afflicted  by  the  malefics,  they 
will  have  less  of  humane  feelings  than  when  under  any  other  sign,  exc^t 
the  last  half  of  f .  They  do  not  sympathize  with  other  persons'  suffer- 
ings,  or  feel  compassion. 


IKTBODTTOTION  TO   ASTBOLOQT.  61 

sies,  convulsions,  pains  in  the  back,  trembling  or  passion  of 
the  heart,  violent  burning  fevers  ;  all  weakness  or  diseases  in 
the  heart,  sore  eyes,  the  plague,  the  pestilence,  the  yellow 
jaandice. 

Places.  —  A  place  where  wild  beasts  frequent ;  woods, 
forests,  desert,  steep,  rocky,  and  inaccessible  places ;  king's 
palaces,  castles,  forts,  parks ;  in  houses  where  fire  is  kept, 
near  a  chimney. 

Shape  and  Form. — Great  round  head;  large  prominent 
eyes,  as  if  staring  out,  or  goggle  eyes,  quick  sighted ;  a  fall 
and  large  body,  and  more  than  of  middle  stature ;  broad 
shoulders,  narrow  sides,  yellow  or  dark  flaxen  hair,  and  it 
cnrling  or  turning  up ;  a  fierce  countenance,  but  ruddy  high 
sanguine  complexion ;  strong,  valiant,  and  active ;  step  firm, 
and  mind  courteous. 

Countries  ruled  hy  ^.  —  France,  Italy,  Bohemia,  Sicily, 
Rome. —  Towns :  Rome,  Bath,  Bristol,  Taunton,  Cremona, 
Prague,  Apulia,  Eavenna,  and  Philadelphia ;  also  the  Alps 
and  the  ancient  Chaldea,  as  far  as  Bussorah. 

VntGO. 

Property  and  Quality  of  trp. — It  is  an  earthy,  cold,  me- 
lancholy, barren,  feminine,  nocturnal,  southern  sign ;  the 
house  and  exaltation  of  J ;  of  the  earthy  triplicity. 

Places. — It  signifies  a  study,  where  books  are  kept;  a 
closet,  a  dairy-house,  corn-fields,  granaries,  malt-houses,  hay, 
^ky,  wheat  or  peas  ricks,  &c. ;  or  a  place  where  cheese  and 
butter  is  preserved  and  stored  up. 

Diseases. — ^The  worms,  wind,  cholic ;  all  obstructions  and 
croaking  of  the  bowels,  infirmities  in  the  testicles,  any  disease 
in  the  belly. 

Countries  ruled  by  vg. — Turkey  in  Europe  and  Asia,  Swit- 
zeriand,  Mesopotamia,  or  Diarbed ;    all  the  country  between 


62  IKTBODUOTIOK  TO  A8TB0I»0GT. 

the  Tigris  and  the  Euphratesy  the  land  of  the  Turcomans,  &c., 
and  the  West  Indies. — Towns :  Paris,  Lyons,  Toulouse,  St. 
Etienne,  Basil,  Heidelburg,  Heading ;  also  Jerusalem,  Candia, 
Lower  Silesia,  Croatia  or  Libumia,  Babylon  or  Bagdat,  Thes- 
saly,  Corinth,  and  the  Morea.  Also  the  trade  and  govern- 
ment  of  Liverpool,  which  are  ruled  especially  by  the  9th 
degree. 

Shape  and  Form, — ^A  slender  body,  rather  tall,  but  well 
composed;  a  ruddy,  brown  complexion;  black  hair,*  well 
favoured  or  lovely,  but  not  a  beautiful  creature ;  a  small,  shrill 
voice,  all  members  inclining  to  brevity  ;f  a  witty,  discreet 
soul,  judicious,  and  exceedingly  well  spoken  ;  studious,  and 
given  to  history,  whether  man  or  woman.  It  produces  a  rare 
understanding,  if  $  be  in  this  sign,  and  ])  in  s  ;  but  some- 
what unstable. 

LlBJlA. 

Nature  and  Property  of  £h . — This  sign  is  hot  and  moist, 
sanguine,  masculine,  moveable,  equinoctial,  cardinal,  humane, 
diurnal :  of  the  airy  triplicity,  and  western ;  the  chief  house 
of  ?. 

Diseases. — ^AU  diseases,  (or  the  stone  and  gravel)  in  the 
reins  of  the  back  and  kidneys ;  heats  and  diseases  in  the 
loins  or  haunches ;  imposthumes  or  ulcers  in  the  reins, 
kidneys,  or  bladder ;  weakness  in  the  back,  corruption  of 
blood. 

Places, — In  the  fields  it  represents  ground  near  windmills, 
or  some  straggling  bam  or  outhouse,  or  sawpits,  or  where 
coopers  work,  or  wood  is  cut,  sides  of  hiUs,  tops  of  moun- 
tains, trees,  grounds  where  hawking  and  hunting  is  used ; 
sandy  and  gravel  fields  ;  pure  clear  air,  and  sharp  ;  the  upper 

*  The  early  part  of  the  sign  gives  brown  hair. 

t  If  V  ascend  therein,  the  limbs  will  be  long  and  the  body  taller. 


HITBODTTCTION'  TO  ASTBOLOOT.  63 

roomg  in  houses^  chambers,  garrets,  one  chamber  within  an- 
other; tops  of  chests  of  drawers,  wardrobes,  &c. 

Shape  and  Farm.  —  It  personates  a  well-framed  body, 
straight,  tall,  and  more  subtle  or  slender  than  gross  ;  a  round, 
Wely,  and  beautiful  visage;  a  pure  sanguine  colour;  in 
youth,  no  abundance  or  excess  in  either  red  or  white ;  but  in 
age,  pimples,  or  a  yery  high  colour;  the  hair  yellowish, 
smooth,  and  long,  eyes  generally  blue,  and  temper  even. 

Cmmtriea  ruled  by  ^ . — China,  Japan,  parts  of  India  near 
them;  Austria,  Usbeck  in  Persia,  towards  India;  Upper 
Egypt,  Livonia,  the  vicinity  of  the  Caspian  Sea. — Towns  : 
Idsbon,  Vienna,  Antwerp,  Francfort,  Spires,  Fribourg,  Charles- 
town  in  America,  and  its  vicinity. 

SOOBPIO. 

Nature  and  Property  of  TT^. — It  is  a  cold,  watery,  noctur- 
nal, phlegmatic,  northern,  feminine  sign  ;  of  the  watery  tri- 
plicity ;  the  house  and  joy  of  Mars  ;  usually  it  represents 
subtle,  deceitful  men. 

Biseasea. — Gravel,  the  stone  in  the  secret  parts  or  bladder ; 
mptores,  fistulas,  or  the  piles ;  priapisms,  all  afflictions  in 
the  private  parts,  either  of  men  or  women ;  defects  in  the 
matrix,  and  its  diseases  ;  injuries,  &c.  to  the  spermatic  cord, 
the  groin,  &c. 

Places, — Places  where  all  kinds  of  creeping  beasts  use,  as 
beetles,  &c. ;  or  such  as  be  without  wings  and  are  poisonous ; 
gardens,  vineyards,  orchards,  ruinous  houses  near  waters ; 
nmddy,  moorish  grounds  ;  stagnant  lakes,  quagmires,  ponds, 
onks,  the  kitchen  or  larder,  washhouse,  &c. 

Form  and  Description. — ^A  corpulent,  strong,  able  body, 
somewhat  a  broad  or  square  face;  a  dusky,  muddy  com- 
plexion, and  sad  dark  hair,  much  and  crisping ;  a  hairy  body, 
somewhat  bow-legged,  short-necked;  a  squat,  well-trussed 
feUow. 


64  DTTBODTTCTIOir  TO  ASTEOLO0T. 

Countries  ruled  bj/vi. — Barbary,  Morocco,  Norway,  Valentia, 
Catalonia,  Bavaria,  and  the  ancient  Cappadocia.  —  Towtis  : 
Francfort  on  the  Oder,  Messina,  Ghent,  Liverpool,  which  is 
especially  ruled  by  the  19th  degree. 

Sagittaet. 

Quality  and  Nature  of  f . — It  is  of  the  fiery  tripKcity, 
east ;  in  nature  hot,  dry,  masculine,  choleric ;  diurnal,  com- 
mon, bicorpora]  or  double  body,  the  house  aud  joy  of  1/ . 

'Diseases. — It  rules  the  thighs  and  buttocks,  and  all  fis- 
tulous tumours  or  hurts  falling  in  those  members ;  and  ge- 
nerally denotes  heated  blood,  fevers,  pestilence,  falls  from 
horses,  or  hurts  from  them  or  four-footed  beasts ;  also  pre- 
judice by  fire,  heat,  and  intemperateness  in  sports. 

Places. — A  stable  for  war-horses,  or  a  house  where  great 
four-footed  beasts  are  usually  kept ;  it  represents  in  the  fields, 
hills,  and  the  highest  land ;  also  grounds  that  rise  a  litUe 
above  the  rest.  In  houses,  upper  rooms  and  places  near  the 
fire. 

Shape  and  Form  of  Body. — It  represents  a  well-favoured 
countenance,  somewhat  long  visage,  but  fuU  and  ruddy,  or 
almost  hke  sunburnt,  the  hair  light  chestnut  colour,  the  sta- 
ture somewhat  above  the  middle  size,  a  conformity  in  the 
members,  and  a  strong,  able  body ;  incUned  to  baldness,  and 
one  fond  of  horses. 

Countries  ruled  by  f .  —  Arabia  Felix,  Spain,  Hungary, 
parts  of  France  near  Cape  Finisterre,  Dalmatia,  Istria,  Tus- 
cany, Moravia,  Sclavonia.-— Tou^n^ .-  Cologne,  Buda,  Avignon, 
Narbonne,  Toledo. 

Capbicoew. 
Quality  and  Nature  ofyf. — It  is  the  house  of  Saturn,  and 
is  nocturnal,  cold,  dry,  melancholy,  earthy,  feminine,  cardinal, 
moveable,  four-footed,  southern ;  the  exaltation  of  (J . 


INTBODTJCTIOK  TO  ASTBOLOGT*  65 

Diaeases. — ^It  has  govemment  of  the  knees,  and  aU  diseases 
incident  to  those  places,  either  by  strains  or  fractures ;  it  de- 
notes leprosy,  itch,  and  cutaneous  complaints. 

Places, — It  shows  an  ox-house  or  cow-house,  or  where 
calres  are  kept,  or  tools  for  husbandry,  or  old  wood  is  laid  up, 
or  where  sails  for  ships  and  such  materials  are  stored ;  also 
aheep-pens,  and  grounds  where  sheep  feed ;  fallow  grounds, 
barren  fields,  bushy  and  thorny ;  dunghills  in  fields,  or  where 
soil  is  laid  in  low  houses ;  dark  places,  near  the  ground^or 
threshold. 

Corparature. — Usually  dry  bodies,  not  high  of  stature, 
long,  lean,  and  slender  visage  ;  thin  beard,  and  black  hair,  d 
narrow  chin,  long  small  neck,  and  narrow  chest.  I  have 
found  many  times,  yf  ascending,  the  party  to  have  white 
hair,  but  in  the  seventh  ever  Mack.* 

Countries  ruled  by  yf. — India,  Greece,  parts  of  Persia 
about  Gircan,  Macran,  and  Chorassan  ;  Lithuania,  Saxony, 
Albania,  Bulgaria,  Stiria,  Mexico,  and  parts  about  the  Isth- 
mus of  Darien,  Santa  Martha,  Popayan,  Pasta,  &c. — Towns  : 
Mecklenburgh,  Hesse,  Oxford ;  and  also  the  Orkney  Islands. 

AQrABITJS. 

Nature  and  Property  of  sas. — ^This  is  an  airy,  hot,,  and 
moist  sign ;  diurnal,  sanguine,  fixed,  humane,  masculine,  the 
principal  house  of  \  ;  western. 

Sickness. — It  governs  the  legs,  ancles,  and  all  manner  of 
infirmities  incident  to  those  members ;  spasmodic  and  nervous 
diseases,  cramps,  wind,  &c. 

*  This  remaik  of  the  author  confinns  our  previous  opinion,  that  the 
eolour  (rf  the  hair  in  questions  depends  on  the  ruler  <rf  the  term  ascending ; 
in  nativities,  on  the  planets  aspecting  the  ascendant,  as  well  as  the  sign 
amoding. 

P 


66  IKTBODTTCTION  TO  ASTEOLOaT. 

Places. — Hilly  and  uneven  places;  spots  newly  dug  or 
ploughed^  or  where  quarries  of  stone  are,  or  any  minerals 
have  been  dug  up  ;  in  houses,  the  roofs,  eaves  or  upper  parts ; 
vineyards,  or  near  some  little  spring  or  conduit  head. 

Shape  and  form, — It  represents  a  squat,  thick  corporature, 
or  one  of  a  strong,  plump,  well-composed  body,  not  tall :  a 
long  visage,  sanguine  complexion ;  if  ^ ,  who  is  lord  of  this 
house,  be  in  Vf  or  rs: ,  the  party  is  black  in  hair,  and  in  com- 
pleidon  sanguine,  with  prominent  teeth;  otherwise  I  have 
observed  the  party  is  of  clear,  white,  or  fair  complexion,  and 
of  sandy-coloured  hair,  or  very  flaxen,  and  a  very  pure 
skin.* 

Cmmtries  ruled  by  ss: . — ^Arabia  the  stony,  Russia,  Tartary, 
Prussia,  parts  of  Poland,  Lithuania  and  Muscovy,  Lower 
Sweden,  Westphalia. — Tovms :  Hamburgh,  Bremen,  Pied- 
mont ;  also  Afifghaunistan,  and  other  parts  of  Asia  bordering 
on  Persia ;  and  this  sign  has  rule  over  the  affairs  of  state 
in  England,  especially  the  13th  degree. f 

Pisces. 

Property  and  Quality  of  K. — This  is  a  northern,  cold 
sign,  fruitful,  phlegmatic,  feminine,  watery ;  the  house  of  If. 
and  exaltation  of  $ ;  a  bicorporeal,  common  or  double-bodied 
sign ;  an  idle,  effeminate,  sickly  sign,  or  representing  a  party 
of  no  action. 

Sickness, — ^AU  diseases  in  the  feet,  as  the  gout ;  and  all 
lameness  and  pains  incident  to  those  members,  mucous  dis- 
charges, itch,  blotches,  breakings  out ;  boils  and  ulcers  pro- 

*  The  Princess  Charlotte  of  Wales  was  bom  with  this  sign  ascending ; 
it  gives  more  beauty  than  any  other  sign  except  £b. 

t  Eclipses  in  esi  cause  great  innovations  in  the  state  in  England: 
comets  plunge  the  nation  into  war.  The  greatest  changes  have  occurred 
in  the  laws  while  \^  has  been  in  »&. 


IlSTTBODTTCTIOir  TO  ASTEOLOGT.  i>/ 

ceeding  firom  corrupt  blood ;  colds  and  moist  diseases,  and 
bowel  complaints  caused  by  wet  feet. 

Places. —  It  represents  grounds  full  of  water,  or  where 
many  springs  and  many  fowl  are :  also  fish-ponds,  or  rivers 
full  of  fish ;  places  where  hermitages  have  been,  moats  about 
houses,  water-mills.  In  houses,  places  near  the  water,  as 
some  well  or  pump,  or  where  water  stands.* 

Corporature. — A  short  stature,  not  very  well  made  ;  a  good 
large  face,  pale  complexion,  the  body  fleshy  or  swelling,  not 
very  straight,  but  incurvating,  or  stooping  somewhat  with  the 
head.t 

Countries  ruled  by  K.  —  Portugal,  Calabria,  Normandy, 
Galicia  in  Spain,  Cilicia. — Towris:  Alexandria,  Batisbon, 
Worms,  Seville,  ComposteUa,  Tiverton. 


CHAPTER    XVI. 


TIACHING  WHAT  USE   MAY   BE   MADE   OP    THE  FOEMEB  DIS- 
COUESE  OF  THE  TWELVE  SIGNS. 

If  one  demand  of  the  artist,  what  condition,  quality,  or  stature 
the  person  inquired  of  is,  then  observe  the  sign  of  that  house 
whereby  he  is  signified,  and  the  planet  in  it,  the  sign  wherein 
the  lord  of  that  house  is,  and  wherein  the  Moon  is  ;  mix  one 
with  another,  and  by  the  greater  testimonies  judge  ;  for  if  the 
sign  be  humane,  viz.  11,11}?,  t:^:,  or  the  first  half  of  f  that 
ascends,  and  the  lord  of  that  sign,  or  the  ])  in  any  sign  of  the 
same  nature,  you  may  judge  the  body  to  be  handsome,  and 
the  conditions  of  the  party  to  be  sociable,  or  very  courteous, 

*  This  sign  denotes  standing  water,  as  25  does  ranning  water, 
t  I  have  generally  found  persons  bom  under  this  sign  have  a  very 
delicate  skin,  and  often  a  white  chalky  appearance,  and  flabby. — Zad. 

^2 


68  nrrRODircTTON  to  ASTBOLoaT. 

&c.  If  the  query  be  conceming  a  duease^  and  T  be  either 
ou  the  cusp  of  the  ascendant  or  descending  in  the  sixth  house, 
you  may  judge  he  has  something  in  his  disease  of  the  nature 
of  T,  but  what  it  is,  you  must  know  by  the  concurrence  of 
the  other  significators. 

If  a  person  has  lost  or  missed  any  cattle,  or  any  material 
thing,  let  him  observe  what  sign  the  significator  of  the  thing 
is  in  ;  if  in  T,  and  it  be  a  beast  strayed,  or  the  like,  let  him 
see  what  manner  of  places  that  sign  directs  into,  and  let  him 
repair  thither  to  search,  considering  the  quarter  of  heayen 
the  sign  signifies ;  if  it  be  a  piece  of  goods  that  without  hands 
cannot  be  removed,  then  let  him  look  into  such  parts  of  or 
about  his  house,  as  T  signifies. 

If  one  asks  conceming  travel,  whether  such  a  country, 
city,  or  kingdom  will  be  healthful  or  prosperous  imto  him, 
see  in  the  figure  what  sign  the  lord  of  the  ascendant  is  in: 
if  the  significator  be  fortunate  in  T»  or  if  1/  or  $  be  therein, 
he  may  safely  travel  or  sojourn  in  such  cities  or  countries  as 
the  sign  T  represents ;  which  you  may  easily  perceive  in  the 
above-named  catalogue.  Those  countries  subject  to  the  sign 
wherein  the  infortunes  are  posited,  unless  they  themselves  be 
significators,  are  ever  unfortunate.  Remember,  that  a  gentle- 
man inquires,  usually,  if  he  shall  have  his  health  and  live 
jocundly  in  such  or  such  a  country  or  city ;  the  merchant 
wholly  aims  at  trade,  and  the  increase  of  his  stock ;  there- 
fore, in  the  merchant's  figure,  you  must  consider  the  country 
or  city  subject  to  the  sign  of  the  second  house,  or  where  the 
part  of  fortune,  or  lord  of  the  second  house  is,  and  which  is 
most  fortified,  and  thither  let  him  trade.* 

*  This  implies,  that  yon  must  judge  by  the  sign  on  the  house  which 
rules  the  particular  subject  of  inquiry ;  as  if  it  be,  where  he  may  gain  a 
good  wife,  look  to  the  seventh  house. 


INTEODUCTIO^  TO  ASIBOLOOY.  69 

CHAPTER   XVII. 

OF  THE   ESSENTIAL  DIGNITIES  OF  THE  PLAITETS. 

The  exact  way  of  judicature  in  astrology  is^  first,  by  being 
perfect  in  the  nature  of  the  planets  and  signs ;  secondly,  by 
knowing  the  strength,  fortitude,  or  debility  of  the  significa- 
tors,  and  well  poising  of  them,  and  their  aspects  and  several 
mixtures,  in  your  judgment ;  thirdly,  by  rightly  applying  the 
influence  of  the  figure  of  heaven  erected,  and  the  planets' 
aspects  to  one  another  at  the  time  of  the  question,  according 
to  natural  and  not  enforced  maxims  of  art ;  for  by  how  much 
you  endeavour  to  strain  a  judgment  beyond  nature,  by  so 
much  the  more  you  augment  your  error.  A  planet  is  then 
said  to  be  really  strong  when  he  has  many  essential  dignities, '*' 
which  are  known  by  his  being  either  in  his  house,  exaltation, 
triplicity,  term,  or  face,  at  the  time  of  erecting  the  figure. 
As,  for  example,  in  any  scheme  of  heaven,  if  you  find  a  planet 
in  any  of  those  signs  we  call  his  house,  he  is  then  essentially 
strong ;  as  I2  in  Vf ,  or  1/  in  ^ ,  &c. 

Essential  Dignity  by  House, — In  judgment,  when  a  planet 
or  significator  is  in  his  own  house,  it  represents  a  man  in  such 
a  condition,  as  that  he  is  lord  of  his  own  house,  estate,  and 
fortune ;  or  a  man  wanting  very  little  of  the  goods  of  this 
world ;  or  it  tells  you  the  man  is  in  it  very  happy  state  or 
condition :  this  will  be  true,  unless  the  significator  be  retro- 
grade, or  combust,  or  afSicted  by  any  other  malevolent  planet 
or  aspect. 

Exaltation. — If  he  be  in  that  sign  wherein  he  is  exalted, 
you  may  consider  him  essentially  strong ;   whether  he  be 

*  These  apply  not  to  nativities  where  the  angular  position  and  good 
aspects  reoeiTed  by  a  planet  constitute  its  strength.— Zad. 


70  UTTEODXICTION  TO  ASTEOLOGT. 

near  the  very  degree  of  bis  exaltation,  or  not ;  as  (J  in  Yf  >  or 
1/  in  s. 

If  the  significator  be  in  his  exaltation,  and  no  ways  impe- 
dited,  but  angular,  it  represents  a  person  of  baugbty  condi- 
tion, arrogant,  assuming  more  to  himself  than  his  due  ;  for  it 
is  observed,  the  planets  in  some  part  of  the  zodiac  do  more 
evidently  declare  their  effects  than  in  others. 

Triplicity, — If  he  be  in  any  of  those  signs  which  are  allotted 
him  for  his  triplidtyy  he  is  also  strong,  but  in  a  less  degree. 

A  planet  in  his  triplicity  shews  a  man  modestly  endued 
with  the  goods  and  fortune  of  this  world ;  one  well  descended, 
and  the  condition  of  his  life,  at  present  time  of  the  question, 
to  be  good ;  but  not  so  much  so  as  if  in  either  of  the  two 
former  dignities. 

Term, — If  any  planet  be  in  those  degrees  we  assign  for  hb 
terms^  we  allow  him  to  be  slightly  dignified. 

A  planet  fortified,  only  as  being  in  his  own  terma^  rather 
shews  a  man  more  of  the  corporature  and  temper  of  the  planet, 
than  any  extraordinary  abundance  in  fortune,  or  eminence  in 
the  commonwealth. 

Face, — If  any  planet  be  in  his  decanate,  or  face,  he  has 
the  least  possible  essential  dignity ;  but  being  in  his  own  de- 
canate or  face,  he  cannot  then  be  called  peregrine. 

A  planet  being  in  his  decanate  or  face,  describes  a  man 
ready  to  be  turned  out  of  doors,  having  much  to  do  to  main- 
tain himself  in  credit  and  reputation ;  and  in  genealogies  it 
represents  a  family  at  the  last  gasp,  even  as  good  as  quite 
decayed,  hardly  able  to  support  itself. 

The  planets  may  be  strong  in  another  way ;  viz.  acciden- 
tally ;  as  when  direct,  swift  in  motion,  angular,  in  A  or  -Jf- 
aspect  with  %  or  ? ,  &c.,  or  in  cS  ^^  certain  notable  fixed 
stars,  as  shall  hereafter  be  related.  Here  follows  a  table  of 
essential  dignities :   by  only  casting  your  eye  thereon,  you 


INTEODUCnON  TO  ASTBOLOOY.  71 

may  perceive  what  essential  dignity  or  imbecility  any  planet 
has. 

There  has  been  much  difference  between  the  Greeks, 
Arabians,  and  Indians,  concerning  the  essential  dignities  of 
the  planets :  I  mean,  how  to  dispose  the  several  degrees  of 
the  signs  suitably  to  any  planet.  After  many  ages  had  passed, 
and  until  the  time  of  Ptolemy,  the  astrologians  were  not  re- 
solved hereof;  but  since  Ptolemy's  time,  the  Grecians  unani- 
mously followed  the  method  he  left,  which  the  other  Christians 
of  Europe  to  this  day  since  retain  as  most  rational :  but  the 
Moors  of  Barbary  at  present,  and  those  astrologians  of  their 
nation  who  lived  in  Spain,  do  somewhat  vary  from  us  to  this 
very  day :  however,  I  present  thee  with  a  table  according  to 
Ptolemy. 


72 


CHAPTER  XVIII. 


CO 

A 
m 

ZQ 
ZO 

o 

i 

•n»4 

»iy 

•o 

^Of 

0 

^ 

^ 

XH 

notniwaa 

Of 

•o 

^>* 

^ 

^ 

r* 

•o 

Of 

x> 

p=\  0 

XH 

1 

o 

Of 

CO 

0 

o 

CO 

o 

CO 

o 

CO 

o 

CO 
Of 

o 

CO 

0 

s 

CO 

O 

CO 

o 

g 

^ 

o 

o 
CI 

o 

Of 

o 

*o 

XH 

o 

o 

o 

o 

Of 

o 

o 

o 

o 

o 

o 

o 

o 

Oi- 

o 

•— < 

' 

o 
CO 

o 
CO 

^0 

o 
CO 

o 

00 

o 

CO 

^ 

^ 

o 

CO 

o 

CO 

s 

^D 

§ 

^ 

S 
^ 

Of 

X>f 

^5 

CO 
C4 

X>f 

Of 

Of 

00 

Oi 

l-H 

Of 

XH- 

Of 

o 

XH 

Of 

2 

CO 

CO 
Or 

Of 

r-H 

Of 

X>f 

XH 

00 
Of 

CO 

4>' 

CO 

CO 
^0 

00 

CO 
Of 

CO 

00 

o^- 

f 

O 

Of 

X>f 

^ 

^ 

O 

Of 

X>f 

^5 

o 

Of 

II 

O 

CO 

00 

l-H 

CO 

^5 

Of 

j 

• 

0+ 

ft 

ft*^* 

ft^* 

o 

X>f 

ft* 

Of 

ft- 

X* 

• 

1 

s 

30 

a 

(fl 

c^ 

i< 

<:i 

r 

^ 

S: 

li 

^ 

INTBODUCnON  TO  ASTEOLOGT.  73 


EXPLAKATION  OF  THE  TABLE. 

Every  planet  has  two  signs  for  his  houbes>  except  Sol  and 
Luna ;  they  but  one  each.  T^  has  Vf  and  rus ;  and  11  has  f 
and  K ;  c?  has  T  and  tt).  ;  ?  has  Q  and  £h;  $  has  n  and  vg. 
One  of  these  houses  is  called  diuma!,  noted  in  the  second 
column  by  the  letter  D ;  the  other  is  nocturnal,  noted  by  the 
letter  N.  The  planets  have  their  exaltations^  as  the  third 
column  points  out :  thus  ©inlQT;  })in30;Qin3  de- 
grees U,  &c.  are  exalted.  These  twelve  signs  are  divided  into 
lOUB  TEiPLiciTiES.  The  fourth  column  tells  you  which  planet 
or  planets^  both  night  and  day,  governs  each  triplicity ;  as  over 
against  s>  1T1>  K>  you  find  ^^  who  governs  by  day  and  night 
in  that  tripHdty;  and  over  against  T,  Sis  f$  you  find  © 
and  If. ,  viz.  that  ©  has  domination  by  day,  and  7/  by  night, 
in  that  triplicity  :  the  first  six  degrees  of  T  are  the  teems  of 
Hf ,  from  six  to  fourteen,  the  teems  of  ?,  &c.  &c.  Over 
against  T>  in  the  tenth,  eleventh,  and  twelfth  columns,  you 
find  <J  10,  ©  20,  ?  30 ;  viz.  the  first  ten  degrees  of  r  are 
the  tace  of  (J;  from  ten  to  twenty,  the  face  of  ©;  from 
twenty  to  thirty,  the  face  of  ? ,  &c. 

In  the  thirteenth  column,  over  against  T,  you  find  ? 
detbimekt,  viz.  ?  being  in  t>  is  in  a  sign  opposite  to  one 
of  her  own  houses,  and  so  is  said  to  be  in  her  deteiment. 
In  the  14th  column,  over  against  T,  you  find  }}»  over  his 
head  fall,  that  is,  ^  when  he  is  in  T  is  opposite  to  his  ex- 
altation, and  so  is  unfortunate,  &c.  Though  these  things  are 
expressed  in  the  nature  of  the  planets  already,  yet  this  table 
makes  it  isippear  more  evident  to  the  eye,  and  is  useful  for 
reference. 


74  UrTBODUCTIOIiT   TO  ASTBOLOGT. 


CHAPTER  XIX. 

CONSIDEEATIONS  BSPOBE   JUDaMENT. 

All  the  ancients  that  have  written  of  questions  do  give  warn- 
ing to  the  astrologer,  that  hefore  he  delivers  judgment  he 
well  consider  whether  the  figure  is  radical*  and  capahle  of 
judgment :  the  question  then  shall  not  be  taken  for  radical : 
Ist,  when  either  the  first  or  second  degrees  of  a  sign  ascend, 
(especially  in  signs  of  short  ascensions,  viz.  Yf>  ^y  K>  T, 
0,  n).  You  may  not  then  adventure  judgment,  unless  the 
querent  be  very  young,  and  his  corporature,  complexion,  and 
moles  or  scars  of  his  body,  agree  with  the  quality  of  the  signs 
ascending.  2d.  If  27  or  more  degrees  of  any  sign  ascend,  it 
is  not  safe  to  give  judgment,  except  the  querent  be  in  years 
corresponding  to  the  number  of  degrees  ascending,  or  unless 
the  figure  be  set  upon  a  time  certain,  viz.  any  event  happen- 
ing, such  as  a  man  went  away  or  fled  at  such  a  time  pre- 
cisely ;  to  learn  the  result :  here  you  may  judge,  because  it  is 
no  propounded  question.  Sd.  It  is  not  safe  to  judge  when 
the  ])  is  in  the  later  degrees  of  a  sign,  especially  in  n.  Hi, 
or  Vf ;  or,  as  some  say,  when  she  is  in  via  combustay  which 
is,  when  she  is  in  the  last  15  degrees  of  £h,  or  the  first  15 
degrees  of  rti. 

All  manner  of  matters  go  hardly  on  (except  the  principal 
significators  be  very  strong)  when  the  ])  is  void  of  course ; 
yet  sometimes  she  performs  it  void  of  course,  if  in  Q ,  s,  f, 
or  K .  You  must  also  be  wary,  when  in  any  question  pro- 
pounded you  find  the  cusp  of  the  seventh  house  afflicted,  or 

*  This  term  signifies,  like  the  radix  or  root,  the  figure  of  birth ;  for 
when  a  person  asks  his  first  question  of  an  astrologer,  it  will  generally  be 
found  that  the  same  sign,  and  often  the  same  degree,  will  ascend  that 
ascended  at  his  birth. 


INTE0DUCTI05  TO  ASTEOLOGT.  75 

the  lord  of  the  house  retrograde  or  impedited,  and  the  matter 
at  that  time  not  concernmg  the  seventh  house,  but  belonging 
to  any  other  house :  it  is  an  argument  that  the  judgment  of 
the  astrologer  will  give  little  content,  or  nothing  please  the 
querent,  for  the  seventh  house  generally  has  signification  of 
the  artist.  The  Arabians,  as  Alldndus  and  others,  do  deliver 
the  following  rules,  as  very  fit  to  be  considered  before  a 
question  be  judged : —  viz.  if  F?  be  in  the  ascendant,  espe- 
daily  retrograde,  the  matter  of  that  question  seldom  or  never 
comes  to  good :  ^  in  the  seventh  either  corrupts  the  judgment 
of  the  astrologer,  or  is  a  sign  the  matter  propounded  will 
come  from  one  misfortune  to  another.  If  the  lord  of  the 
ascendant  be  combust,  neither  question  propounded  will  take, 
nor  the  querent  be  regulated.  The  lord  of  the  seventh  un- 
fortunate, or  in  his  fall,  or  terms  of  the  infortunes,  the  artist 
shall  scarce  give  a  solid  judgment. 

When  the  testimonies  of  fortunes  and  infortunes  are  equal, 
defer  judgment :  it  is  not  possible  to  know  which  way  the 
balance  will  turn ;  however,  defer  your  opinion  till  another 
question  better  inform  you. 


CHAPTER  XX. 


WHAT  SIGlirEPIOATOE,  QTJEEENT,  AKD  QUESITED,  AEE  ;  AlfD  AJS 
nTEBODTTCTION  TO  THE  JUDGMENT  OF  A  QTIESTION. 

The  querent  is  he  or  she  that  propounds  the  question  and  de- 
sires resolution  ;  the  quesited  is  he  or  she,  or  the  thing  sought 
and  inquired  after. 

The  significator  is  no  more  than  that  planet  which  rules  the 
house  that  signifies  the^  person  or  thing  demanded  ;  as  if  T 


76  nrrEODUCTioN  to  asteologt. 

is  ascending,  ^  being  lord  of  T»  shall  be  significator  of  the 
querent,  viz.  the  sign  ascending  shall  in  part  signify  his  cor- 
poratnre,  body,  or  stature  :  the  lord  of  the  ascendant,  accord- 
ing to  the  sign  he  is  in,  the  ])  and  planet  in  the  ascendant, 
equally  mixed  together,  shall  shew  his  quality  or  conditions ; 
so  that  let  any  sign  ascend,  what  planet  is  lord  of  that  sign 
shall  be  called  lord  of  the  house,  or  significator  of  the  person 
inquiring,  &c. 

So  that,  in  the  first  place,  when  any  question  is  propounded, 
the  sign  ascending  and  his  lord  are  always  given  unto  him  or 
her  that  asks  the  question. 

Secondly :  You  must  then  consider  the  matter  propounded, 
and  see  to  which  of  the  twelve  houses  it  does  properly  belong: 
when  you  have  found  the  house,  consider  the  sign  and  lord  of 
that  sign,  how,  and  in  what  sign  and  what  part  of  heaven  he 
is  placed,  how  dignified,  what  aspect  he  has  to  the  lord  of  the 
ascendant,  who  impedites  your  significator,  who  is  a  friend 
unto  him,  viz.  what  planet  it  is,  and  what  house  he  is  lord  of, 
or  in  what  house  posited ;  from  such  a  man  or  woman  signi- 
fied by  that  planet  shall  you  be  aided  or  hindered,  or  by  one 
of  such  relation  unto  you  as  that  planet  signifies  ;  if  lord  of 
such  a  house,  such  an  enemy ;  if  lord  of  a  house  that  signi- 
fies enemies,  then  an  enemy  verily ;  if  of  a  friendly  house,  a 
^end. 

The  whole  natural  key  of  astrology  rests  in  the  words  pre- 
ceding, rightly  understood.  By  the  examples  following,  I 
shall  make  all  things  more  plain ;  for  I  do  not  desire  or  will 
reserve  any  thing  whereby  the  learner  may  be  kept  in  sus- 
pense of  understanding  what  is  useful  for  him,  and  most  fit 
to  be  known.  In  every  question  we  do  give  the  ])  as  a  con- 
significator  with  the  querent  or  lord  of  the  ascendant.  Hav- 
ing well  considered  the  several  applications  and  separation  of 
the  lords  of  those  houses  signifying  your  questions,  as  also 


nrrBODTTCTioir  to  astbologt.  11 

the  ( ,  her  situation  and  quality  of  the  aspects  she  has,  and 
each  significator  has  to  each,  you  may  hegin  to  judge  and  con- 
sider whether  the  thing  demanded  will  come  to  pass,  yea  or 
nay ;  hy  what  or  whose  means,  the  time  when,  and  whether 
it  will  be  good  for  the  querent  to  proceed  further  in  his  de- 
mands, yea  or  nay. 


CHAPTER  XXL 


TO  EKOW  WHETHEB  A  THING  l>EMAin)S1)  WILL  BS  BBOUGHT 
TO  PEBPECTIOIT,    TEA  OB  NAT, 

The  ancients  have  deUvered  unto  us,  that  there  are  four  ways 
or  means  which  discover  whether  a  person's  question  demanded 
shall  be  accomplished,  yea  or  nay. 

Conjunction. — First,  by  conjunction :  when  therefore  you 
find  the  lord  of  the  ascendant,  and  the  lord  of  that  house 
which  signifies  the  thing  demanded,  hastening  to  a  c^,  and  in 
the  fiirst  house,  or  in  any  anglcy  and  the  significators  meet  with 
no  prohibition  or  refiranation,  before  they  come  to  perfect  d , 
you  may  then  judge  that  the  thing  sought  after  shall  be 
brought  to  pass  without  any  manner  of  let  or  impediment ; 
the  sooner,  if  the  significators  be  swift  in  motion,  and  essen- 
tially or  accidentally  strong ;  but  if  this  d  of  the  signifi- 
cators be  in  a  mcceedent  house,  it  will  be  perfected,  but  not  so 
soon ;  if  in  cadent  houses,  with  infinite  loss  of  time,  some 
difficulty,  and  much  struggling. 

Aspects  of  ^  or  A« — Things  are  also  effected,  when  the 
principal  signifiers  apply  by  •}(•  or  A  aspect  out  of  good 
houses  and  places  where  they  are  essentially  well  dignified, 
and  meet  with  no  malevolent  aspect  to  intervene  ere  they  come 
to  be  in  perfect  ^  or  A. 


78  INTEODUCTIOir  TO  ASTBOLOGT. 

Aspects  of  n  «»c?  <?  • — ^Things  are  also  produced  to  per- 
fection when  the  significators  apply  by  n  aspect^  provided 
each  planet  have  dignity  in  the  degrees  wherein  they  are,  and 
apply  out  of  proper  and  good  houses ;  otherwise  not.  Some- 
times it  happens  that  a  matter  is  effected  when  the  significators 
apply  by  ^ ,  but  it  is  when  there  is  mutual  reception  by  housCy 
and  out  of  friendly  houses,  and  the  ])  separating  from  the 
significator  of  the  thing  demanded,  and  applying  presently  to 
the  lord  of  the  ascendant.  I  have  seldom  seen  any  thing 
brought  to  perfection  by  this  way  of  opposition,  but  the  que- 
rent had  been  better  the  thing  had  been  undone ;  for,  if  the 
question  was  concerning  marriage,  the  parties  seldom  agreed, 
but  were  ever  wrangling  and  disputing,  each  party  repining 
at  his  evil  choice,  laying  the  blame  upon  their  covetous  parents, 
as  having  no  mind  to  it  themselves  ;  and  if  the  question  was 
about  portion  or  monies,  the  querent  did,  it  is  true,  recover 
his  money  or  portion  promised,  but  it  cost  him  more  to  pro- 
cure it  in  suit  of  law  than  the  debt  was  worth ;  and  so  have  I 
seen  it  happen  in  m&ny  other  things,  &c. 

Translation. — Things  are  brought  to  perfection  by  transla- 
tion of  light  and  nature,  in  this  manner  : — ^When  the  signi- 
ficators both  of  querent  and  quesited  are  separating  from.  (5> 
or  •)(•,  or  A  aspects  of  each  other,  and  some  other  planet 
separates  himself  from  one  of  the  significators,  of  whom  he 
is  received,  either  by  house,  triplicity,  or  term,*  and  then  this 
planet  applies  to  the  other  significator  by  d  or  aspect,  before 
he  meets  with  the  cJ  or  aspect  of  any  other  planets  ;  he  thus 
translates  the  force,  influence,  and  virtue  of  the  first  signifi- 
cator to  the  other,  and  then  this  intervening  planet,  (or  such 
a  man  or  woman  as  is  signified  by  that  planet,)  shall  bring  the 
matter  in  hand  to  perfection. 

Consider  what  house  the  planet  interposing  or  translating 

*  This  means  being  in  these  dignities  of  that  significator. 


IKTEODXJCTION  TO  ASTBOLOGT.  79 

the  nature  and  light  of  the  two  planets  is  lord  of,  and  describe 
him  or  her  ;  and  say  to  the  querent,  that  such  a  party  shaU 
do  good  in  the  business  of,  &c. ;  viz.  if  lord  of  the  second,  a 
good  purse  effects  the  matter ;  if  lord  of  the  third,  a  kins- 
man or  neighbour ;  and  so  of  aU  the  rest  of  the  houses  ;  of 
which  more  hereafter. 

Collection. — Matters  are  also  brought  to  perfection,  when 
the  two  principal  significators  do  not  behold  one  another,  but 
both  cast  their  several  aspects  to  a  more  weighty  planet  than 
themselyes,  and  they  both  receive  him  in  some  of  their  essen- 
tial dignities  ;  then  shall  that  planet,  who  thus  collects  both 
their  lights,  bring  the  thing  demanded  to  perfection ;  which 
signifies  that  a  person  somewhat  interested  in  both  parties, 
and  described  and  signified  by  that  planet,  shall  perform  the 
thing  which  otherwise  could  not  be  perfected  ;  as  many  times 
you  see  two  fall  at  variance,  and  of  themselves  cannot  think 
of  any  way  of  accommodation,  when  suddenly  a  neighbour 
or  friend  accidentally  reconciles  all  differences,  to  the  con- 
tent of  both  parties ;  and  this  is  called  a  collection. 

In  all  questions,  you  are  generally  to  observe  this  method 
following : — ^The  ascendant  represents  the  person  of  the 
querent,  and  the  second  his  estate,  the  third  his  kindred,  the 
fourth  his  father,  the  fifth  his  children,  the  sixth  his  servant 
or  sickness,  -the  seventh  his  wife,  the  eighth  the  manner  of 
his  death,  the  ninth  his  religion  or  journeys,  the  tenth  his  es- 
timation or  honour,  mother,  trade,  &c. ;  the  eleventh  his 
friends,  the  twelfth  his  secret  enemies :  also  understand,  that 
when  one  asks  concerning  a  woman,  or  any  party  signified  by 
the  seventh  house  and  the  lord  thereof,  that  then  the  seventh 
house  shall  be  her  ascendant,  and  signify  her  person ;  the 
eighth  house  shall  signify  her  estate,  and  be  her  second  ;  the 
ninth  house  shall  signify  her  brethren  and  kindred ;  the  tenth 
shall  represent  her  father ;  the  eleventh  her  children,  or  whe- 


80  IKTKODUCTION  TO  ABTEOLOOT. 

ther  apt  to  have  children ;  the  twelfth  her  sickness  and  ser- 
vants ;  the  first  house  her  sweetheart ;  the  second  house  her 
death;  the  third  her  journey;  the  fourth  her  mother,  or 
trade,  &c. ;  the  fifth  her  friends ;  the  sixth  her  sorrow,  care, 
and  private  enemies.  Let  the  question  be  of  or  concerning  a 
churchman,  minister,  or  the  brother  of  the  wife  or  sweetheart, 
the  ninth  house  shall  represent  each  of  these ;  but  the  tenth 
house  shall  be  significator  of  his  substance;  the  eleventh 
house  of  his  brethren  ;  and  so  in  order :  and  so  in  all  manner 
of  questions,  the  house  signifying  the  party  quesited  shall  be 
his  ascendant  or  first  house,  the  next  his  second  house,  and 
so  continuing  round  about  the  whole  heavens  of  twelve  houses. 
If  a  question  be  made  of  a  king  or  nobleman,  the  tenth  is 
his  first  house,  the  eleventh  his  second,  &c. ;  but  in  nativities, 
the  ascendant  always  influences  the  party  bom,  whether  king 
or  beggar.  These  things  preceding  being  well  understood, 
you  may  proceed  to  judgment ;  not  that  it  is  necessary  you 
have  all  that  is  written  in  your  memory  exactly,  but,  that  you 
be  able  to  know  when  you  are  in  error,  when  not ;  when  to 
judge  a  question,  when  not. 

Of  the  true  Time  of  erecting  a  Figure. 

The  proper  time  is  that  when  you  feel  most  anxious  about 
any  matter,  and  first  form  the  resolution  to  erect  a  figure  on 
the  subject :  if  you  find  the  figure  radical,  and  lay  aside  all 
self-love  and  prejudice,  you  may  safely  judge  a  figure  erected 
for  that  instant  of  time. 

If  a  person  apply  to  an  astrologer,  the  figure  must  be  taken 
for  the  exact  time  he  first  speaks  on  the  subject ;  or,  if  it  be 
by  letter,  when  it  is  first  read  and  understood  by  the  artist 
If  it  be  not  a  question,  but  an  event  suddenly  happening, 
then  the  moment  of  its  commencement  will  shew,  by  a  figure, 
its  result,  &c. ;  as  the  first  setting  off  on  a  journey,  beginning 


IKTEODTTCTION  TO  ABTROLOaX,  81 

a  letter,  or  any  business,  &c. ;  or  when  you  first  discover  the 
loss  of  any  article,  or  hear  of  any  event  happening :  in  all 
these  cases,  the  first  impression  on  your  mind  is  the  true  mo- 
ment for  the  figure. 

Of  the  Planet  or  Planets  which  hinder  or  impedite  the  Thinff 
demanded  in  any  Question, 

In  all  questions  consider  carefully  what  planet  it  is  which 
obstructs  or  hinders  the  perfection  of  the  thing  desired.  We 
receive  judgment  herein  from  that  planet  with  whom  the  lord 
of  the  ascendant  be  join^,  (whether  by  bodily  (5  or  by  as- 
pect), or  the  significator  of  the  thing  inquired  after,  whether 
it  be  the  ])  herself,  or  that  she  be  partaker  with  the  lord  of 
die  ascendant  or  not,  or  signify  the  thing  demanded. 

Carefolly  observe  the  planet  to  which  the  querent's  signifi- 
cator is  joined,  or  the  D  ;  and  observe  how  that  planet  is  dis- 
posed, and  unto  whom  he  b  joined ;  for  if  the  lord  of  the 
ascendant,  ]),  or  significator  of  the  thing  propounded,  be 
joined  to  an  evil  planet,  evilly  disposed,  without  reception,  or 
if  he  be  not  evilly  disposed,  but  be  joined  to  an  infortune, 
and  that  infortune  receive  him  not,  it  denotes  the  destruction 
of  the  thing  demanded. 

A  planet  is  ill-disposed  when  he  is  peregrine^  retrograde, 
combust ;  also  if  cadent  and  behold  not  the  lord  of  the  house 
or  the  cusp  of  the  house  of  the  thing  demanded.  The  as- 
pect  to  the  cusp  is  better  than  to  the  lord  of  the  house. 

If  the  significator,  as  above,  be  joined  to  an  unfortunate 
planet,  viz.  one  retrograde,  combust,  or  cadent ;  then  observe 
whether  mutual  reception  intervene  ;  which  shews  the  perfec- 
tion of  the  matter,  though  with  much  labour  and  soUcitation. 
If  there  be  no  reception,  the  affair  will  come  to  nothing,^' 
ihongh  there  may  have  been  much  probability  of  its  perform- 
ance. 


82  INTEODirCTION  TO  ASTBOLOGT, 

If  the  lord  of  the  ascendant,  the  D ,  or  lord  of  &e  thing 
demanded,  or  the  planet  who  rec^Tea  any  of  them,  he  free 
from  affliction,  though  withoot  mntnal  reception,  it  perfects 
the  matter  with  fadPiity^ 

If  anj  one  of  them  he  free  from  the  infortnnes,  and  joined 
with  any  henevolent  planet,  who  is  himself  aspected  hy  a 
malevolent,  without  mutual  reception,  the  matter  will  he 
hrought  to  a  good  conclusion. 

Consider  carefully  whether  planets  in  aspect  he  without  re- 
ception, for  when  they  are  in  reception,  things  are  ever 
hrought  to  pass ;  though,  if  the  aspect  he  evil,  with  degree 
of  trouhle,  delay,  &c. 

Consider  also,  whether  any  other  {danet  prohibit  hefore  the 
significators  join  in  perfect  (5  with  an  evil  planet ;  if  so,  it 
hinders  the  thing  from  happening:  hut  if  no  such  prohibition 
or  cutting  off  the  light  of  the  in/ortune  occur,  hy  which  its 
malevolence  may  be  taken  off,  the  thing  will  be  effected. 

If  an  infortune  collect  the  light  of  other  planets,  or  if  light 
he  translated  to  an  mfortune,  the  matter  will  not  be  effected 
unless  there  be  reception  ;  viz.  that  the  infortune  be  received 
by,  or  disposed  of,  or  ruled  by,  (which  is  all  one  thing),  the 
significators* 


TKTBODUCTION  TO  ASTBOLOOT.  83 


THE  RESOLUTION  OF  ALL  MANNER  OF 
QUESTIONS  AND  DEMANDS. 


CHAPTER   XXIL 


QUBSTIOKS  CQKCEBNINa  THE  FIBST  HOTJSB»     IE  THE  QVEBElffT 
BE   LIKELY  TO  LIVE  LONG — TEA  OB  NOT? 

Signs  of  Health  and  long  Life. 

CoNSiDEB  whether  the  sign  ascending,  the  lord  thereof,  and 
J ,  be  free  from  affliction ;  viz.  combustion  or  (5,  D  or  ^f  of 
the  lords  of  the  8th,  12th,  6th,  or  4th  houses  ;  whether  they 
be  direct^  strong  in  dignities,  swift  in  motion,  angular,  espe- 
cially in  the  1st,  or  10th  houses;  or  if  in  the  11th  or  9th, 
and  in  good  aspect  with  1/ ,  ?,  or  0,  or  in  the  terms  of  % 
or  $ :  these  are  arguments  of  health  and  long  life ;  and  the 
contrary,  viz.  the  asc.  ]) ,  or  lord  of  the  1st,  in  bad  houses, 
and  afflicted^  shew  misclnef  at  hand. 

If  the  lord  of  the  ascendant  be  under  the  Sun's  beams,  or 
going  to  combustion,  which  is  worse  than  when  he  is  leaving 
0;  or  })  cadent  and  unfortunate,  by  being  afflicted  by  those 
planets  having  rule  in  the  8th,  or  6th ;  or  Tj  j  c?  or  S  in  the 
ascendant  or  7th  house  peregrine,  or  in  their  detriments  or 
retrograde,  judge  that  the  querent  will  not  be  long  lived,  but 
is  near  some  danger  or  misfortune,  according  to  the  quality 
of  the  significators,  and  of  the  houses  those  planets  are  lords 
of,  which  afflict  the  }) ,  &c. 

o  2 


'  84  INTRODTTCTIOlf  TO   ASTKOLOGT. 

The  Time  when  any  of  those  Accidents  shall  happen. 

If  the  lord  of  the  ascendant  he  going  to  ci,  &c.  of  ©,  or 
lords  of  the  8th,  or  4th,  see  how  many  degrees  he  is  distant, 
and  in  what  sign  either  of  them  are ;  and  for  each  degree 
allow  one  week  in  a  moveable  sign,  one  month  in  a  common 
sign,  and  one  year  in  a  fixed  sign  ;  this  is  only  for  example ; 
for  the  measure  of  time  must  be  limited  according  to  the  other 
significators  concurring  in  judgment  herein. 

Secondly, — Consider  also  how  many  degrees  ])  is  from  any 
infortune,  or  the  lords  of  the  6th  or  8th,  according  to  the 
signs  and  houses  in  which  they  are  found,  and  their  nature 
and  quality. 

Thirdly, — If  there  be  an  infortune  in  the  ascendant,  see 
how  many  degrees  the  cusp  of  the  1st  house  wants  of  the 
place  of  the  evil  planet ;  or,  if  he  be  in  the  7th  house,  how 
far  it  is  from  the  cusp  of  that  house,  and  compute  the  time 
of  death,  sickness,  or  misfortune,  by  the  degrees,  as  they  may 
be  in  fixed,  common,  or  moveable  signs. 

If  the  lord  of  the  ascendant  be  most  afflicted  by  the  lord 
of  the  Cth,  and  in  the  6th,  or  come  to  combustion  in  the  6th, 
the  querent  will  have  very  many  and  tedious  sicknesses,  which 
will  scarce  leave  him  till  his  death.  This  will  be  more  certain 
if  the  lords  of  the  ascendant,  8th  house,  and  ]) ,  be  all  placed 
in  the  6  th. 

If  the  }),  lord  of  the  ascendant,  or  sign  ascending,  be 
most  afflicted  by  the  lord  of  the  8th,  or  by  a  planet  situated 
in  the  8th,  judge  that  the  sickness  which  now  afflicts  him, 
or  shortly  will,  will  end  fatally,  and  that  death  is  approach- 
ing. But  if  the  ])  and  other  significators  are  chiefly  afflicted 
by  the  lords  of  other  houses,  judge  the  misfortune  from  the 
nature  of  the  house  or  houses  of  which  the  afflicting  planets 
are  lords ;   and  the  first  origin  thereof  from  some  person  or 


rNTItODirCTION  TO  A8TB0L0GT.  85 

thing  belonging  to  that  house,  -wherein  you  find  the  afflict- 
ing planet  posited.  Judge  thereby  a  misfortuney  but  not 
death. 

If  there  be  any  fixed  star,  of  much  power,  near  the  ]) , 
lord  of  the  ascendant  or  the  degree  ascendmg,  or  with  the 
planet  which  afflicts  any  of  these,  you  may  judge  evil  thereby, 
according  to  the  nature  of  that  star ;  for  which,  see  the 
chapter  on  Fixed  Stars. 

Caution. 

Avoid  rash  judgments ;  especially  of  death.  This  should 
never  be  judged  by  one  single  testimony,  however  strong. 
And  though  the  lord  of  the  ascendant  be  going  to  combus- 
tion in  the  boose  of  death,  observe  whether  the  ]) ,  1^ ,  or  ? 
(or  $  if  well  aspected  and  strong),  throw  any  good  aspect 
to  the  lord  of  the  ascendant,  before  he  come  to  perfect  (5 
^th  G;  for  then  either  medicine  or  natural  strength  wDl 
contradict  that  malignant  influence,  or  take  off  part  of  that 
misfortune.  When  two  or  more  of  the  rules  aforesaid  occur, 
you  may  be  more  bold  ;  yet  concerning  the  absolute  time  of 
death,  I  have  found  it  best  to  be  wary.  Though  you  may 
•afely  judge  that  the  querent  will  not  be  long-Uved,  or  qbe 
subject  to  many  calamities  ;  and  this  I  know  by  many  verified 
examples.  This  knowledge  will  be  useful  to  those  who  will 
use  their  reason  to  avoid  those  casualties  their  nature  or  in- 
clinations  would  run  them  into.'*' 

*  The  student  will  perceive,  by  this  (^^servation  of  the  author,  how 
finite  is  the  assertion,  that  astrology  teaches  or  upholds  fatality.  On  the 
oontruy,  it  expressly  teaches  that  the  worst  influence  may  be  overcome 
I7  the  use  of  reason,  which,  of  course,  implies  by  the  assistance  also  *of 
God's  blessing,  which  both  reason  and  revelation  inform  us  we  should 
pny  for  when  we  perceive  any  impending  evil. — Zadkibl. 


86  INTEODTTCTION  TO  ASTEOLOQT. 

To  what  Part  is  it  best  the  Querent  should  direct  his  Affairs^ 
or  where  may  he  live  most  happily  ? 

The  12  houses  are  divided  into  the  four  quarters  of  heaven, 
east,  west,  north  and  south.  From  the  cusp  of  the  1st,  where 
the  O  ^^^  planets  rise,  to  the  cusp  of  the  10  th,  is  the  south- 
east quarter.  The  1st,  is  due  east;  the  1 2th,  is  about  two 
points  south  of  east;  the  middle  of  the  11th,  is  south  east ; 
the  cusp  of  the  1 1th,  is  about  two  points  east  of  south ;  and 
the  10th,  is  due  south.  In  like  manner,  from  the  10th  to  the 
7th  house  is  the  south-west  quarter  ;  and  from  the  7th  to  the 
4th  is  the  north-west  quarter ;  and,  lastly,  from  the  4th  to 
the  ascendant  is  the  north-east  quarter.  In  that  quarter 
wherein  you  find  %y  ? ,  ]) ,  or  ©,  or  most  of  them,  direct 
the  querent  to  proceed  in  that  direction,  especially  if  0  and  ]) 
be  free  from  combustion  and  be  strong.  If  7^  or  $  be  lords 
of  the  8th,  12th,  or  6th  houses,  you  must  avoid  them  ;  and 
avoid  that  quarter  wherein  the  evil  planets  are,  unless  they  be 
essentially  strong,  and  lords  of  the  1st,  2d,  10th,  or  11th 
houses,  when  they  may  prove  friendly.* 

If  the  querent  desire  to  live  where  he  may  most  enjoy 
healthy  look  to  the  quarter  of  the  lord  of  the  ascendant,  or 
}) ;  and  whichever  is  strongest,  or  casts  the  best  aspect  to 
the  degree  ascending,  to  that  quarter  repair  for  health.  If 
an  increase  of  wealth  be  considered,  see  where  the  lord  of 
the  2d,  the  0,  and  its  dispositor,  or  any  two  of  them>  be, 
and  thither  repair  for  that  end.  Of  this  I  shall  speak  in 
other  judgments. 

What  Part  (/Litb  is  like  to  be  best  ? 
See  in  what  angle  or  quarter  of  heaven  the  fortunate  and 

*  I  should  not  myself  choose  the  directions  of  the  infortunes  in  any 
case.— Zadkiel. 


IKTBODTJCTION  TO  ASTBOLOGY.  87 

promising  planets  are ;  for  in  this  way  of  judging  we  osnaily 
give  to  every  house  five  years,  more  or  less,  as  the  significators 
promise  life  or  death.  Begin  with  the  12th,  then  the  11th, 
then  the  10th,  &c.,  and  so  round  to  the  ascendant.  If  7^  or 
?  be  in  the  11th  or  10th,  judge  the  querent  to  have  lived 
happily  from  the  5th  to  the  15th  year  of  age :  if  they  be  in 
the  8th  or  7th,  he  will  or  hath  lived  contented  from  fifteen  to 
thirty ;  if  7/ ,  &c.  be  in  the  6th,  5th,  or  4th,  house,  say  that 
after  his  middle  age,  from  30  to  45,  he  may  do  well ;  but  if 
the  benefics  be  in  the  last  quarter,  his  greatest  happiness  will 
be  in  his  last  days,  or  after  45.  If  you  find  the  significators 
very  strong,  you  may  add  a  year  to  each  house.  Lastly,  the 
aspects  the  ])  and  lord  of  the  ascendant  are  separated  from 
shew  what  and  what  manner  of  accidents  have  preceded  the 
question  ;  their  next  application  what  may  be  next  expected. 
If  you  consider  the  house  or  houses  the  planets  they  separated 
^m  are  lords  of,  it  acquaints  you  with  the  matter,  nature, 
person,  and  quality  of  the  things  already  happened — evil  if 
the  aspects  were  evil,  and  good  if  they  were  good.  Also  if 
you  note  the  quality  of  the  next  aspect  by  application,  and 
the  well  or  ill-being  and  position  of  the  planets  applied  to,  it 
shews  the  character  of  the  next  succeeding  accidents  and 
events,  their  nature,  proportion,  &c.,  and  the  time  when  they 
will  happen. 


88  iNTBODUcnoir  to  asteologt. 

Fig.  2. 


^i^ 


(y^ 


An  AsTBOLOOiCAL  Judgment  concerning  these  Demands  f>y 
the  Querent, 

1 .  If  he  were  likely  to  live  long,  yea  or  not  ? 

2.  To  what  part  of  the  world  he  were  best  direct  his  conrse  ? 

3.  What  part  of  life  was  likely  to  be  most  fortunate  ? 

4.  He  desired  I  would  relate  some  of  the  general  accidents 

which  Jiiad  happened  to  him  already  ? 

5.  What  accidents  in  future  he  might  expect  ? 

6.  The  time  when? 


INTBODTTCTION  TO  ABTBOLOOT,  89 

The  statore  of  the  querent  is  shewn  hy  SI » the  sign  ascend- 
ing; a  fixed  star  of  the  1st  magnitude,  of  the  nature  of  ^ 
and  11,  called  Cor  SI,  the  Hon's  heart,  b  near  the  cusp  of 
tiie  Ist  house,  in  SI  24""  34'  ;'*'  hoth  the  cusp  of  the  Ist  house 
and  the  degree  wherein  Q  lord  of  the  ascendant  is,  are  the 
terms  of  7/ ;  the  ])  is  in  A  aspect  to  both  11  and  ? ,  and  they 
in  the  10th  house;  so  that  the  form  and  stature  of  the 
querent  were  decent.  He  was  of  middle  stature,  strongly 
compacted,  neither  fat  nor  fleshy,  hut  comely  and  graceful,  a 
£ur  yisage,  reddish  hair,  clear  skin,  some  cuts  on  his  right 
cheek  (he  was  a  soldier),  and  certainly  the  presence  of  the 
fixed  star  in  the  ascendant,  which  represents  the  face,  occa- 
sioned those  hurts  or  scars.f 

As  the  sign  ascending,  and  its  lord,  were  in  the  Jiety  tri- 
pHcity,  and  by  nature  hot  and  dry,  so  was  this  gentleman's 
temper  and  condition,  being  exceedingly  valiant,  choleric, 
high-minded,  and  of  great  spirit :  for  Q  is  in  his  exaltation ; 
yet  ])  being  in  A  to  the  two  fortunes,  he  was  sober,  modest, 
and  excellCiitly  educated,  thereby  haying  great  command  of 
his  passion ;  but  as  })  was  in  ^  to  $ ,  he  had  his  times  of 
anger  and  folly,  whereby  he  much  prejudiced  his  afiisurs.^ 

Ist  QuEET. — If  live  long,  ^c.  ? 

The  ascendant  not  yitiated  by  the  lords  of  the  6th  or  8th  ; 
the  lord  of  the  ascendant  in  his  exaltation  no  way  impedited, 
pretty  quick  in  motion,  in  the  9th  house,  and  in  terms  of  % ; 

*  This  star  has  now  advanced  to  about  27**  30'  of  the  sign  Leo. 

t  I  differ  from  the  author  on  this  point,  and  believe  that  the  lord  of 
the  ascendant  being  in  T ,  which  rules  the  head,  shewed  them ;  it  being 
a  muKMikne  sign,  caused  them  to  be  on  the  right  side  ;  and,  being  dbw 
fhe  earth,  they  were  in  front  of  the  head,  or  in  the  face;  The  0  being 
ifiicted  by  the  c^  of  (^ )  caused  them  to  be  scars  or  wounds :  if  he  had 
l)eai  alone,  they  would  have  been  merely  moles, — Zadkiel. 

t  The  0  in  (^  with  i  would  render  him  very  fiery,  and  at  the  same 
tune  very  brave  and  fortunate,  as  a  soldier. 


90  IKTEODirCTION  TO  ASTBOLOGT. 

J  separating  firom  A  of  ?  applying  to  A  of  7^ ,  he  strong 
in  the  midheayen,  and  the  malice  of  ^  restrained  by  the  -)f 
oi  %  I  Q)  above  the  earth,  the  fortunes  angular  and  more 
potent  than  the  infortunes ;  I  concluded  that,  according  to 
natural  causes,  he  might  live  many  years ;  that  nature  was 
strong,  and  he  subject  to  few  diseases.  This  has  hitherto 
proved  true  ;  he  being  yet  alive  this  present  March,  1646. 

2d  QuEBY. — To  what  part  of  the  world  he  were  best  direct 
hie  course  ? 

0  lord  of  the  ascendant  near  the  cusp  of  the  9th,  (and  the 
sign  thereof  moveable),  the  house  of  long  journeys ;  I  inti- 
mated that  he  was  resolving  suddenly  upon  a  journey  south- 
east :  south,  because  the  quarter  of  heaven  wherein  the  lord 
of  the  ascendant  is,  is  south ;  east,  because  the  sign  where  0 
is,  is  east,  {this  he  confessed)  ;  and  as  ©  was  but  2*  ICK  distant 
from  the  cusp  of  the  9th,  he  went  away  within  two  months. 

1  judged  those  countries  subject  to  T  might  be  propitious. 
Had  his  resolution  been  to  stay  in  England,  it  might  have 
been  good  for  him,  for  England  is  subject  to  T  :  I  would  have 
advised  him  to  steer  towards  Kent,  Essex,  Sussex  or  SuflFolk ; 
for  they  He  south-east  from  London.  But  if  sometimes  you 
find  a  city,  town  or  kingdom,  subject  to  the  sign  which  pro- 
mises good,  stands  not  in  the  direction  the  sign  or  quarter  of 
heaven  points  out  as  above,  observe  this  rule — that  if  en- 
forced to  live  in  that  country,  city,  &c.,  then  direct  your 
actions  or  employment  to  those  parts  of  that  country,  &c., 
which  lie  east,  west,  &c.,  as  in  the  figure  is  directed. 

As  the  ])  applied  strongly  to  the  A  of  %y  and  he  and  ? 
were  in  0 ,  which  rules  Ireland,  I  advised  him  that  Ireland 
would  agree  with  his  constitution,  and  that  he  might  get  honour 
there,  as  the  planet  to  whom  ])  appUes  is  in  the  house  of 
honour.  And  the  querent  did  go  into  Ireland,  and  there  per- 
formed good  service,  and  obtained  a  notable  victory  against 
the  rebels. 


nrTEODxrcTioN  to  astbology.  91 

3d  QxTEBT. — What  part  of  his  ltpb  would  be  best  f 
Considering  the  two  fortunes  were  placed  in  the  10th>  and 
S  and  O  ui  the  9th,  I  judged  his  younger  years  would  be 
the  most  pleasant ;  and  $  being  in  the  8th,  which  comes  to 
about  the  24th,  25th,  or  26th  years  of  his  age,  I  judged  about 
that  time  many  crosses,  and  that  his  afflictions  iirst  began. 
And  seeing  no  fortunate  planet  either  in  the  7th,  6th9  5th,  4  th, 
or  3d  houses,  I  said  the  remainder  of  his  Hfe,  for  many  years, 
would  be  little  comfortable,  and  full  of  labour  and  trouble. 
Tet  I  judged  those  calamities  should  not  suddenly  come- upon 
him,  because  ])  appHed  to  A  of  7^ ,  and  wanted  almost  2^"  of 
coming  to  a  perfect  aspect.  Therefore  I  conceived  by  means 
of  some  person  in  authority  represented  by  7^ ,  he  should  be 
supported  or  assisted  in  his  affairs  for  almost  three  years  after 
the  question.  Had  %  been  essentially  dignified,  I  should 
have  judged  him  a  more  durable  fortune. 

4th  QuEEY.  —  What  general  accidents  had  happened 
already  ? 

Although  it  is  not  usual  to  be  so  inquisitiye,  yet,  seeing  the 
figure  so  radical,  I  considered  from  what  planets  0>  lord  of 
the  ascendant,  had  last  separated.  The  Q  had  lately  been  in 
(5  <J,  then  D  J? ,  then  -)(•  11 .  Now  as  (J  is  lord  of  the  4th 
house,  signifying  lands,  &c.,  and  was  now  in  the  8th,  which 
signifies  the  substance  of  wameuy  I  judged  he  had  been  mo- 
lested of  late  concerning  some  lands,  or  the  jointure  or  portion 
of  his  wife,  or  »  woman ;  wherein  I  was  confirmed  the  more, 
as  ])  applies  to  ^f  (J^  in  the  8th  house ;  she  being  in  the  que- 
rent's house  of  property,  which  shewed  that  the  quarrel  or 
strife  should  be  concerning  money  or  things  signified  by  that 
house.     (All  this  was  very  true,) 

As  O  luid  lately  been  in  D  ^  >  significator  of  the  querent's 
wife,  I  told  him  that  his  wife  and  he  had  been  at  great  variance ; 
and  because  her  significator  T^  did  dispose  of  his  0,  I  judged 


92  utteoduction  to  astbologt. 

that  she  had  no  mind  that  he  should  have  any  of  her  estate  or 
manage  it,  hut  kept  it  to  her  own  use.  For  ^  is  retrograde 
in  a  fiery  sign,  and  the  sign  of  the  7th  fixed,  all  which  shews 
her  to  he  a  woman  not  willing  to  he  curbed  or  to  submit. 
(This  was  confessed.) 

Lastly,  as  Q  was  lately  m^  to  11,  and  7/  in  the  10th,  I 
told  him  that  some  great  lawyer  or  courtier*  had  endeayoured 
to  reconcile  the  differences  between  them  ;  and  as  Q  and  1^ 
did  now  apply  to  A  aspect,  there  seemed,  at  present,  a  willing- 
ness in  both  parties  to  be  reconciled.  Nor  did  I  see  any  ob- 
struction in  the  matter,  except  $ ,  who  is  in  Q  aspect  to  ^  , 
did  impedite  it.  I  judged  $ ,  in  general,  to  signify  some  law- 
yer, attorney,  or  writings ;  but,  as  he  was  lord  of  the  que- 
rent's 2d,  it  might  be  because  the  querent  would  not  consent 
to  allow  her  such  a  sum  of  money  as  might  be  asked ;  or  that, 
his  purse  being  weak,  he  had  not  wherewithal  to  solicit  his 
cause;  or  $  being  lord  of  the  11th,  some  pretended  friend 
would  advise  the  contrary,  or  some  of  her  lawyers ;  or,  as  the 
11th  is  the  5th  from  the  7th,  a  child  of  the  querent's  wife 
might  be  the  occasion  of  continuing  the  breach.  (Z  believe 
every  particular  herein  proved  true  ;  however,  this  was  the 
way  to  find  the  thing  which  disturbed  their  unity,) 

Observe,  that  as  ?,  lady  of  the  10th,  doth  dispose  of  11^ 
lord  of  the  8th,  viz.  the  wife's  fortune,  so  she  had  entrusted 
her  estate  to  a  great  nobleman. 

5th  QiTmB.Y,—-What  accidents,  in  future,  he  might  expect  ? 

In  this  query,  I  first  considered  Q,  lord  of  the  ascendant, 
no  ways  unfortunate  or  in  ill  aspect  with  any  planet ;  but,  on 
the  contrary,  excellently  fortified :  I  judged  he  had  the  wide 
world  to  ramble  in,  (for  a  planet  strong,  and  in  no  aspect  with 
others,  shews  a  man  at  liberty  to  do  what  he  will) ;  and,  for 
many  years  he  might  {quoad  capax)  live  in  a  prosperous  con- 
*  It  was  the  Lord  Coventry, 


INTBOBUCTIOK  TO  ASTBOLOGT.  93 

ditioD,  and  traverse  much  ground,  or  see  many  countries. 
For  T,  the  sign  which  Q  is  in,  is  moveable  and  on  the  cusp 
of  the  9th,  the  house  of  long  journeys ;  which  denoted  many 
changes  and  variety  of  action  in  sundry  parts. 

2dly :  I  observed  ])  in  his  house  of  substance,  applying  to 
V  in  the  10th,  and  l/.  lord  of  the  5th  and  8th ;  the  former 
the  house  of  children  ;  the  latter  that  of  the  wife's  substance. 
Hence  I  gathered,  that  the  querent  was  desirous  to  treat  with 
some  nobleman  {If,  being  in  the  10th)  about  the  education 
of  his  children  ;  and  that  there  might  be  a  salary  payable  out 
of  the  wife's  jointure.  {Such  a  thing  he  did  settle  before  he 
left  England.) 

3<ily :  I  found  })  in  irp  peregrine. 

4thly :  ^  lord  of  his  2d,  signifying  his  estate  in  K>  his 
detriment ;  yet,  in  his  own  terms,  afflicted  by  ^ ,  and  having 
lately  had  the  c?  of  ]) .  Hence  I  judged  that  he  had  been  in 
great  want  of  money  a  little  before  the  question  was  asked. 
And  if  we  note  the  distance  between  the  <f  of  })  and  J ,  we 
find  6'  21',  shewing  that  he  had  been  in  want  of  money  about 
six  months  and  somewhat  more,  previously  to  asking  the 
question.     (This  was  confessed.) 

5thly :  Seeing  })  was  applying  to  A  of  1/ ,  and  then,  be- 
fore she  got  out  of  the  sign  irp,  did  occur  the  <f  of  (J,  I  ac- 
qnainted  the  querent  that,  after  some  years  of  pleasure,  he 
▼oold  be  in  great  danger  of  losing  his  life,  goods,  lands,  and 
fortune.  His  lifcy  because  (J  is  in  the  8th :  his  estate,  be- 
cause })  is  in  the  2d  ;  and  his  lands  or  inheritance,  because 
$  is  lord  of  the  4th  and  situated  in  the  8th  house ;  for  the 
4th  house  denotes  lands,  &c. 

6th  QuEET. — The  time  when  ? 

In  this  query,  I  considered  the  application  of  J  to  A  V ; 
which  wanting  about  3  degrees,  I  judged  that  he  might  live 
pleasantly  for  about  three  years  to  come. 


94  IKTEODUOTIOlSr  TO  ASTEOLOaX. 

2dly :  Seeing  tliat  Q  lord  of  the  ascendant,  during  his 
motion  through  T>  did  not  meet  any  malevolent  aspect,  and 
had  got  26  degrees  to  run  through  the  sign,  I  gave  this  nar 
ture  of  judgment:  I  told  him  that  for  about  26  months,  or 
until  over  two  years  to  come,  I  judged  he  should  live  in  a 
free  condition,  in  those  parts  in  which  he  intended  his  jour- 
ney, &c. 

Lastly  :  I  considered  how  many  degrees  ])  wanted  of  the 
cP  of  >. 

Longitude  of  c? 28»  40' 

Longitude  of  ]) •  21     18 

Difference 7     22 

This  difference,  if  in  proportion  unto  time,  and  neither  give 
years,  because  the  significators  are  in  common  signs  and  not 
in  fixed ;  nor  months,  because  the  sigos  signify  somewhat 
more ;  but  proportion  a  mean  between  both  :  the  time  limited 
in  this  w&y  will  amount  to  about  three  years  and  three  quar- 
ters ere  the  ^f  of  (J  to  J  should  take  effect.  But  as  this 
query  was  general,  I  might  have  allowed  for  every  degree  one 
year.*  After,  or  about  which  time,  he  was  in  several  actions, 
both  dangerous  to  his  person  and  fortune ;  and  since  that 
time  tin  the  present,  he  has  had  his  intervals  of  good  and  Dl, 
but  is  now  under  the  frown  of  fortune,  &c. 

As  the  O  at  the  time  of  the  question  was  strong,  he  did 
overcome  all  manner  of  difficulties  for  many  years,  and  has, 
in  our  unlucky  differences,  had  honourable  employment  on 
his  Majesty's  part.  But  as  })  f  is  in  ^  to  (J,  so  it  was  not 
without  the  general  outcry  and  exclamations  of  the  people ; 
nor  was  it  his  fortune,  though  in  great  command,  ever  to  do 
his  Majesty  any  notable  piece  of  service.     And  he  is  now  for 

*  I  should  certainly  always  do  so. — Zad. 

t  In  all  questions  })  signifies  the  people,,  where  tbey  are  at  all  con- 
cerned. 


IHTBODTJOTIOir  TO  A8TB0L0GT.  95 

ever,  by  just  sentence  of  the  Parliament,  deprived  of  the 
happiness  of  ending  his  days  in  England ;  which  mighty  in 
some  measure,  have  been  foreseen  by  the  <f  of  J  to  (J,  he 
being  lord  of  the  4th,  the  end  of  all  things.* 

N.B.  All  yoong  beginners  should  at  first  write  down  their 
judgments  om  each  figure  at  fhll  length,  and  afterwards  eon- 
tract  their  opinions  into  a  narrow  compass ;  by  this  means 
they  wffl  soon  acquire  experience.  It  is  well  to  enter  every 
figure  in  a  book  for  farther  reference,  and  to  remark  and 
register  such  things  as  have  occurred  according  to  their  pre- 
dictions or  otherwise  ;  by  which  they  will  be  able  ta  correct 
their  future  judgments. 


CHAPTER    XXIII. 

If  Wit  sTiallfind  the  Party  at  Home  he  would  speak  with  ? 

Thi  ascendant  and  its  lord  are  for  the  querent,  the  7th 
and  its  lord  for  him  you  would  speak  with  ;  but  if  it  be  with 
any  relation,  take  the  house  signifying  that  relation  and  its 
lord ;  as,  for  the  father  the  4tb,  for  a  child  the  5th,  and  for 
an  intimate  friend  the  11th ;  if  the  lord  of  the  7th,  or  quesi- 
ted*8  significator,  be  in  any  of  the  four  angles,  the  party  is  at 
home ;  but  if  he  be  in  a  succeedent  house,  he  is  not  far  from 
home ;  but  if  in  a  cadent  house,  then  he  is  far  from  home. 

If  you  find  the  lord  of  the  ascendant  apply  to  the  quesited's 
perfect  aspect  the  same  day  you  intend  to  visit  him,  you  may 
be  assured  either  to  meet  him  going  to  his  house,  or  hear  of 
him  by  the  way ;  or,  if  any  planet  separate  from  the  lord  of 
the  quesited's  house,  and  transfer  his  light  to  the  lord  of  the 
•scendant,  you  will  learn  where  he  is  by  a  person  signified  by 

*  I  tbonld  say  also,  by  \  being  in  the  4th  house  and  retrograde,  for 
lach  a  position  eTer  denotea  a  final  catastrophe 


96  urTBODTJonoir  to  astboloot. 

that  planet.  Describe  the  planet,  and  it  personates  the  in- 
dividual ;  and  the  nature  of  the  planet,  sign,  and  quarter  of 
heaven  it  is  in,  will,  by  the  plurality  of  testimonies^  shew 
whether  it  be  male  or  female. 

Of  a  thing  suddenly  happening,  whether  it  signifies  Good 
or  Evil? 

Erect  your  figure  of  heaven  at  the  exact  dme  of  any  event 
happening,  or  when  you  first  heard  of  it :  then  consider  who 
is  lord  of  the  ascendant,  and  which  planet  disposes  of  0  and 

]) ;  and  see  if  either  of  these  be  in  the  ascendant,  and,  if 
more  than  one,  take  the  most  powerful ;  and  let  his  positicm 
be  well  considered.     If  he  be  in  good  aspect  with  0,  ^,  or 

?,  there  will  no  evil  arise  from  the  accident,  rumour,  or 
whatever  the  event  may  be  ;  but  if  you  find  that  planet  weak 
in  the  scheme,  combust,  or  in  evil  aspect  to  ^,  ^ ,  cJ,  or  5» 
there  will  be  some  evil  occur.  If  you  consider  the  afflicting 
planet  and  his  nature  and  position,  you  may  learn  the  nature 
of  the  misfortune.  If  it  be  the  lord  of  the  3d,  it  will  come 
through  some  kinsman  or  neighbour,  or  by  some  short  jour- 
ney ;  if  the  lord  of  the  2d  cast  the  ray,  or  the  evil  planet  be 
in  the  2d,  it  denotes  loss  of  money ;  *  if  the  lord  of  the  4th, 
trouble  about  houses,  &c.,  or  by  means  of  a  father  or  wife's 
mother ;  if  the  5th,  by  intemperance,  or  by  children,  &c., 
and  so  of  the  rest.f 

*  the  same  if  0  receive  evil  rays  approaching. 

t  The  nature  of  the  planet  casting  the  ray,  also  may  be  expected  to 
shew  the  nature  of  the  evil ;  S  shews  rohhers,  &c.,  \i  elderly  persons, 
^  young  persons  and  lawyers,  ^  unlooked-for  and  uncommon  events, 
$  females,  O  men  in  power,  7\.  clergymen  and  magistrates,  })  sailors, 
low  people,  mobs,  &c.  But  note,  that  unless  the  benefic  planets  be  lords 
of  evil  houses,  their  ill  aspects  do  not  import  much  evil.  And  if  they  be 
lords  of  good  houses,  or  placed  in  good  houses  and  strong,  their  good  as- 
pects denote  benefits  in  the  same  manner ;  and  in  all  cases  0  shews 
gain  or  loss,  as  it  may  be  aspected;  and  fi,  with  the  chief  significator, 
imports  benefits,  and  ^  the  reverse. 


INTEODTJCTION  TO   ASTBOLOGT.  97 

QuxBY. — What  Mark,  Mole,  or  Scar  has  the  Querent  on 
any  Part  of  his  Body  ?  This  is  useful  to  prove  that  a  ques- 
tion is  radical,  and  to  satisfy  sceptics  of  the  truth  of  the 
science. 

When  you  haye^  upon  any  demand,  erected  the  querent's 
figure,  obserre  what  member  of  man's  body  the  ascending 
sign  represents;  for  upon  that  part  of  his  body  will  the 
querent  haye  a  mole,  mark,  or  scar ;  as,  if  the  ascendant  be 
r ,  the  same  will  be  on  the  head ;  if  0 ,  it  will  be  on  the 
neck ;  if  n,  on  the  arms  or  shoulders,  &c.*  And  also  in  the 
part  ruled  by  the  sign  in  which  the  lord  of  the  ascendant  is, 
vill  there  be  another  mark. 

The  signs  on  the  cusp  of  the  6th  house,  and  that  in  which 
the  lord  of  the  6th  is,  will  give  other  marks  on  the  parts  they 
rale.  Also  the  sign  in  which  ])  is  found  will  give  a  mark  in 
that  part  it  goyems. 

If  ^2  give  the  mark,  it  is  dark,  obscure,  or  black ;  (J 
usually  gives  a  red  mole  ;  but  if  he  be  in  a  fiery  sign,  it  is 
generally  a  cut  or  scar. 

If  the  sign  or  planet  signifying  the  mark  or  mole  be  much 
afflicted,  the  mark,  &c.  will  be  more  obvious  and  eminent. 

If  the  sign,  or  planet  be  masculine,  the  mark  is  on  the 
fight  side  of  the  body ;  but  if  they  be  feminine,  on  the  left 
aide.  And  if  the  significator  of  the  mole,  &c.  be  above  the 
horizon,  the  mark  or  mole  will  be  on  the /ore  part,  or  visible 
to  Ihe  eye,  or  on  the  outside  of  the  member,  &c. ;  but  if  the 
planet  be  below  the  earth,  it  will  be  found  on  the  inside,  or 

*  Pakts  ^  Man's  Body  ruled  by  the  Twelve  Signs. 

T  Head  and  face.  ^  Reins  and  loini. 

0  Neck  and  throat.  v\  Secret  members, 

n  Arms  and  shoulders.  /  H^s  and  thighs. 

50  Breast  and  stomach.  Vf  Knees  and  hams. 

51  Heart  and  back.  «&  Legs  and  ancles. 
i«  Bowels  and  belly.  K  Feet  and  toes. 

H 


98  nTTBODUOTION  TO  ASTEOLOGT. 

hinder  party  or  not  visible.  If  few  degrees  are  on  the  cusp 
of  the  house,  or  the  planet  signifying  the  mole,  &c.  be  in  few 
degrees  of  the  sign,  the  mark,  mole,  &c.,  will  be  in  the  upper 
part  of  the  member.  If  they  be  in  the  middle  of  the  sign,  it 
will  be  in  the  middle  of  the  member  or  part  ruled  by  the 
sign.  But  if  the  latter  degrees  ascend,  or  are  on  the  6th,  or 
their  lords,  or  ])  be  in  the  latter  degrees  of  a  sign,  then  will 
the  mark,  mole,  or  scar  be  near  the  lower  part  of  the  mem- 
ber. If  your  question  be  radical,  and  the  time  rightly  taken, 
the  above  rules  wiU  always  exactly  hold  good.  And  so  will 
they  (mutatis  mutandis)  upon  the  body  of  the  quesited ;  for 
if  a  person  inquire  concerning  his  wife,  then  the  sign  on  the 
7th  and  its  lord  will  shew  the  woman's  marks  ;  and  the  sign 
on  the  12th,  (the  6th  from  the  7th),  and  its  lord  will  shew 
two  other  marks. 

Many  times  if  the  ])  be  in  (5  or  ^f  ©,  the  querent,  has 
some  blemish  in  or  near  his  eyes :  aud  this  is  ever  true,  if  the 
(S  or  ^  he  in  angles,  and  ])  or  ©  be  afficted  by  Mars.* 

Whether  one  absent  he  dead  or  alive? 
If  the  quesited  have  no  relation  to  the  querent,  then  the 

*  If  2|.  give  the  mark,  it  will  be  bluish  or  purple  j   ?  gives  it  yellow ; 

$  a  pale  lead  colour ;  0  olive  or  chesnut ;  and  })  a  whitish  hue,  or 
partly  of  the  colour  of  the  planets  she  aspects.    The  infortnnes  \  and 

i ,  especially  when  together,  or  in  exact  aspect,  mark  according  to  their 
position.  If  they  be  in  the  ascendant,  a  mole,  &c.  will  be  in  the  face  > 
if  in  the  2d,  on  the  neck ;  in  the  3d,  on  the  arms,  &c 

And  all  these  rules  apply  to  the  figure  of  birth,  as  well  as  horary 
figures ;  but  drfectsy  such  as  protrusion  of  the  breast  bone,  or  a  humped 
back,  &c.  (to  persons  bom  with  25  or  52  rising),  may  sometimes  be  found 
in  lieu  of  moles  or  scars.  For  example,  her  present  majesty,  having  \i 
in  ¥. ,  which  rules  the  feet,  and  situated  near  the  cusp  of  the  12th  hotAse^ 
at  her  birth,  she  has  a  weakness  in  her  feet.  Had  (me  testimony  only  ex- 
isted, and  \i  been  in  x  elsewhere,  she  would  have  merely  had  a  mole  on 
her  foot. 


INTBODUCTION  TO  ASTEOLOGT.  99 

ascendant,  its  lord^  and  ])  shall  signify  the  ahsent  person. "" 
But  if  the  party  inquired  after  he  a  relation,  then  take  the 
house  and  its  lord  which  signifies  that  relation  ;  as  the  3d  for 
a  hrother  or  sister,  fhe  4th  for  a  father,  the  6th  for  a  paternal 
uncle  or  aunt,  the  10th  for  a  mother,  &c. 

In  judging  this  question,  see  whether  the  quesited's  lord  of 
the  Ist  and  8th  he  joined  corporally  together  in  the  8th,  or  he 
in  ^  firom  the  6th  or  8th.  These  are  tokens  of  his  heing 
sick  or  near  to  death.  See  if  there  be  any  translation  of  light 
between  the  lord  of  his  ascendant  and  the  8th,  or  if  the  lord 
of  the  8th  being  in  his  ascendant,  the  lord  of  his  ascendant 
be  also  in  the  8th ;  or  the  lord  of  the  8th  in  the  4th,  and  the 
lord  of  the  4th  in  the  8th ;  these  are  aU  tokens  that  the  party 
is  dead ;  especially  if  his  significator  be  much  afflicted  by  ill 
aspects,  and  the  evil  planets  be  angular,  and  the  good  ones 
cadent. 

If  the  lord  of  his  ascendant  be  separating  from  ill  aspect 
of  the  lord  of  the  6  th,  the  absent  party  has  been  lately  sick  ; 
if  from  the  lord  of  the  8th,  he  has  been  near  death,  but  is  not 
dead,  without  other  striking  testimonies,  as  above,  concur.  If 
from  the  lord  of  the  12th,  he  has  been  troubled  with  anxiety 
about  arrests  or  fear  of  imprisonment ;  and  if  his  significator 
be  in  the  12th,  he  is  in  much  trouble  by  means  of  a  private 
enemy ;  and  if  in  a  fixed  sign,  and  other  testimonies  of  trou- 
ble agree,  he  is  in  prison.  If  he  separate  from  the  lord  of 
the  2d  by  ill  aspect,  he  is  now  suffering  by  want  of  money. 
If  from  the  lord  of  the  7th,  he  has  had  some  quarrel  or  con- 
tention. If  the  9th,  trouble  on  journeys  or  by  law,  &c. ; 
and  so  of  the  other  houses.  I  have  ever  found  that  if  the 
lord  of  his  ascendant  be  in  the  9th,  10th,  or  11th,  though  re- 

*  We  should  always  take  the  ascendant,  &c.  for  the  querent,  and  the 
7th  and  its  lord  for  the  quesited.  But  if  the  figure  be  erected  by  an  artist 
at  his  own  suggestion,  let  the  ascendant,  &c.  shew  the  absent  person. 

H  2 


100  INTEODUCnOlf   TO  A8TE0L00T. 

ported  dead,  he  was  alive.  If  you  find  him  alive,  and  wonld 
know  when  you  will  hear  from  or  see  him,  observe .  in  the 
Ephemeris  when  the  lord  of  the  querent's  11th  and  the 
quesited's  ascendant  oome  to  •)(•  or  A  aspect:  about  that 
time  news  of  him  will  arrive.  If  the  })  apply  to  •)(•  or  A 
of  his  significator,  then  allow  a  day,  week,  or  month,  for  each 
degree  she  be  distant,  according  as  the  significators  may  be 
placed  in  angles,  succeedent  or  cadent  houses,  and  the  signs 
be  moveable,  common,  or  fixed.* 

*  The  most  difficult  thing  in  all  questions  is  to  judge  of  time  with  ac- 
curacy. I  should  advise  the  young  student  to  be  cautious  of  giving  any 
judgment  on  this  head,  unless  where  it  is  the  chief  point  desired  to  be 
knovim.  In  this  case,  and  if  the  figure  be  very  radical,  and  if  the  planet 
which  ii  tqtplying  to  the  other  be  taken,  the  fc^owing  rule  will  hold  good : — 
Each  Degree  ffhtee 

In  Moveable  Signs  and  Angles DATS. 

In  Common  Signs  and  Angles WEEKS. 

In  Fixed  Signs  and  Angles MONTHS. 

Succeedent  homes  give  toeekSt  numthSf  and  yearsp  as  the  sign  is  move' 
able,  common^  or  fixed;  and  cadent  homee  give  monthe  in  moveable  eigne^ 
j^Mrr  in  common,  and  an  indefinite  time  ia  fixed  signs. — Zad. 


nSTTBODUOTION  TO  ASTBOLOGT. 


101 


Fig,  3, 


The  above  Fiqube  was  fob  Resolution  of  the  following 

QUEBIES. 

Igt.  If  a  Party  might  he  found  at  Home  ? 

2d.  A  Tiling  suddenly  happening ^  whether  Good  or  III  is 

about  to  follow? 
3d.  What  Moles  or  Marks  the  Querent  has  ? 
4tli.  If  one  absent  be  dead  or  alive  9 


102  INTBODIJCTION  TO  ASTEOLOGT. 

Ist  QxTEET. — A  Woman  demanded  whether  her  Son  was 
with  his  Master  at  her  own  Home  ? 

In  tliis  figure,   ?  lady  of  the  ascendant  denotes  the  que- 
rent.    The  5th  house  is  that  of  children,  and  descrihes  the 
matter  inquired  of.     I  found  IJ. ,  lord  of  the  5th,  youth's  sig- 
nificator,  in  the  east  angle ;  one  argument  that  the  party  was 
at  home  at  his  mother's  house.     The  ])  was  applying  to  •)(. 
of  \  lord  of  the  4th,  the  significator  of  the  querent's  dwell- 
ing :  I  judged  that  she  would  find  him  there  at  her  coming 
home :  which  she  did.     Now,  had  I  found  % ,  lord  of  the 
5th,  in  the  10th,  which  house  signifies  the  master ;  or  had  ]) 
separated  from  1/,  the  youth's  significator,  and  then  applied 
to  0,  the  ])  heing  in  an  angle,  I  would  have  judged  him  at 
his  master's  house.     I  considered  further,  that  the  25th  of 
July  following  at  2  p.m.,  the  significators  of  the  mother  and 
son  {%  and  ?)  came  to  A  aspect;  and  therefore  I  judged 
that  she  should  see  him  at  that  time  :  which  she  did.     For 
usually  ahout  that  day  when  the  significators  come  to  -)f  or 
A  aspect  (which  may  he  seen  in  the  Ephemeris),  it  is  very 
probahle  that  news  of,  or  a  letter  from,  the  quesited  will  arrive, 
if  the  distance  will  permit.     But  if  the  querent  and  quesited  be 
not  far  asunder,  without  question  they  meet  on  that  very  day. 
Had  the  party  inquired  for  been  a  stranger,  he  would  have 
been  denoted  by  (J  lord  of  the  7th ;  and  being  in  the  2d,  a 
succeedent  house,  I  should  have  said  he  is  not  at  home,  but 
yet  not  far  from  home.     And  as  the  sign  f   is  eastern,  and 
the  2d  house  is  north  east,  I  should  judge  him  in  that  direc- 
tion ;   and  as  f  governs  fields,  hills,  or    high    grounds,  I 
should  direct  a  messenger,  if  sent  for  him,  to  go  in  that 
direction,  and  look  for  him  in  such  places  ;  but  if  it  were  in 
a  town,  as  f  governs  stables,  fire-places,  &c.,  I  should  cause 
him  to  be  sought  near  a  stable,  smith's  or  butcher's  shop,  &c., 
as  (J  delights  in  such  places. 


rBTTBODUCTIOTr  TO  ASTBOLOGT.  103 

2d  QuEBY. — A  Thing  suddenly  happening,  whether  Good 
or  III  is  about  to  follow  ? 

The  O  is  here  lord  of  the  sign  he  is  in  ;  1/  is  lord  of  X , 
where  ])  is ;  ?  is  lady  of  the  ascendant,  and  is  casting  a  A 
to  the  ascendant,  and  is  in  A  to  1/ ,  and  he  in  the  ascendant ; 
from  all  which  we  might  safely  have  judged,  had  this  heen 
the  time  of  a  sndden  accident,  or  thing  done,  that  it  could 
not  have  redounded  to  the  querent's  injury.  But  had  ? 
been  nearer  to  <f  of  (J,  he  being  in  the  2d,  I  should  have 
judged  that  the  querent  would  have  received  some  loss  of 
money  shortly,  and  so  of  the  rest.* 

3d  QuEBT. — TFhat  Moles  or  Marks  the  Querent  has  ? 

I  find  25®  of  £h  ascending  and  1/  in  the  ascendant,  which 
signifies  the  face.  This  querent  had  a  wart  or  mole  on  the 
right  side  of  her  face,  near  her  mouth ;  for  %  and  £b  are 
masculine.  And  as  the  latter  degrees  of  ^  ascend,  so  the 
querent  confessed  a  mole  on  the  lower  part  of  her  reins  to- 
wards the  haunches.  T  being  the  sign  of  the  6th,  shewed 
she  had  one  on  the  forehead,  near  the  hair,  for  the  cusp  of  the 
house  is  but  4  degrees.  ^  lord  of  the  6th,  being  in  /  a 
masculine  sign  and  under  the  earth,  shewed  a  mole  on  the 
right  thigh,  towards  the  middle  of  it,  on  the  back  part,  or 

*  We  consider  that  our  author  has  been  rather  brief  on  this  point,  for 
numerous  occasions  occur  where  the  mind  is  desirous  of  knowing  the  re- 
sult when  events  happen.  If  $  had  been  within  orbs  of  <J  opposition, 
that  is,  ?uilf  the  distance  of  their  united  orbs,  or  7° ;  we  should  have 
judged  loss  of  money  by  a  party  shewn  by  ? ,  and  her  situation  consid- 
ered with  the  houses  she  governs.  As,  for  example,  $  ruling  the  12th, 
some  private  female  enemy,  among  the  relations  of  the  wife  or  husband ; 
because  .$  is  in  the  3d  from  the  7th  house.  And  as  (?  is  (f  to  0,  we 
should  predict  a  loss  by  a  servant  (since  S  rules  the  6th) ;  and  as  0  is 
in  the  8th,  it  might  be  by  one  who  comes  to  char  or  go  messages ;  if  0 
had  been  in  a  watery  sign,  a  washerwoman.  But  the  general  testimonies 
being  good,  we  should  say  the  evil  wiU  be  but  trifling.  Experience  will 
teach  the  student  these  points. 


104  INTBODUOTION  TO  ABTBOLOOT. 

that  part  which  ia  not  visible.  The  ])  in  27th  degree  of  K, 
a  feminine  sign,  under  the  earth,  I  told  her  she  had  one  mole 
under  and  towards  the  extremity  of  her  left  foot. 

The  quesited  being  her  son,  had  }i  for  his  ascendant,  which 
denoted  a  mole  on  the  left  side  of  his  cheek ;  and  as  K  sig- 
nifies the  foot,  so  he  had  one  on  the  left  foot  a  little  below  the 
ancle,  as  few  degrees  ascend.  The  6th  from  the  5th  is  the 
10th  in  the  figure,  which  having  4^  SI,  shewed  that  near  his 
right  side,  below  his  breast,  he  had  some  scar,  mole,  or  mark. 

In  this  way  follow  the  directions  of  the  rule. 

4th  QuEET. — TFJiether  one  absent  be  dead  or  alive  9 

In  the  aforesaid  figure,  the  ascendant  %  therein  and  $ 
its  ruler,  as  also  ]) ,  are  the  significators  of  the  party  absent. 
The  ascending  sign  and  %  therein  describe  his  person  ;*  and 
3)  and  $  shew  his  condition. 

The  ])  and  ?  are  free  from  any  evil  aspect  of  the  lord  of 
the  8th,  and  a  benefic  is  in  the  ascendant,  and  $  in  the  9th ; 
I  should  therefore  pronounce  the  absent  in  health.  But  $ 
having  been  recently  in  ^  to  (f ,  lord  of  the  2d  and  6th,  he 
had  been  lately  in  trouble  about  money,  and  also  inclined  to  a 
feverish  state.  But  by  It/  in  the  ascendant,  and  in  A  to  $ , 
I  should  say  that  medicine,  or  such  a  person  as  is  described 
by  1/,  had  relieved  him.  And  as  J  lord  of  the  11th  applies 
to  a  D  of  7/ ,  (both  of  them  in  signs  of  long  ascension,  which 
is  equivalent  to  a  A,)t  ^  should  judge  the  querent  to  have 
news  of  the  absent  about  ten  weeks  from  the  time  of  the 


*  If  no  planet  be  in  the  ascendant  of  the  party,  look  to  the  lord  of  the 
ascendant  for  a  description  of  his  person,  according  to  the  sign  it  is  in, 
and  judge  by  that  and  the  sign  ascending ;  but  if  the  lord  of  the  ascendant 
be  much  qfflicted,  the  })  f  according  to  the  sign  she  is  in,  must  be  taken. 

t  This  doctrine  of  the  signs  of  long  ascension,  causing  a  ^  to  be  equal 
to  a  Dy  and  a  D  to  a  A»  and  the  reverse  in  signs  of  short  ascension,  can 
only  be  received  in  horary  and  mundane  astrology ;  and  not  in  nativities. 


IKTBOBVOTIOJET  TO  ASTBOLOeX.  105 

questiony  because  ^  wants  ten  degrees  of  the  D  of  It^ .  If 
the  absent  be  known  to  be  at  a  short  distance  firom  the  que- 
dted,  I  should  have  judged  that  in  ten  days  they  should  hear 
of  him,  because  the  signs  are  moveable.* 


CHAPTER  XXIV. 

OF   A   SHIP,    AITD   HEB   SAPETY  OB  DESTBTJCTIOir. 

The  ascendant  and  the  ^  signify  the  ship  and  cargo;  the 
lord  of  the  ascendant,  those  that  sail  in  her.  If  you  find  a 
malevolent,  having  dignities  in  the  8th,  placed  in  the  ascen- 
dant, or  the  lord  of  the  ascendant  in  the  8th  in  ill  configura- 
tion with  the  lords  of  the  8th,  12th,  4th,  or  6th,  or  if  the  ]) 
be  combust,  and  under  the  earth,  you  may  judge  that  the  ship 
is  lost,  and  the  men  drowned.  But  if  you  find  reception  be- 
tween the  significators  at  the  same  time,  the  ship  was  wrecked, 
but  some  of  the  crew  escaped :  if  all  the  preceding  signifi- 
cators be  free  from  affliction,  then  both  ship  and  cargo  are 
safe ;  and  if  there  be  reception,  the  more  so.  If  the  ascen- 
dant and  ])  be  unfortunate,  and  the  lord  of  the  ascendant 
fortunate,  the  ship  is  lost,  but  the  men  saved. 

But  when  the  querent  demand,  of  any  ship  setting  forth, 
and  the  state  of  the  ship  ere  she  return,  and  what  may  be 
hoped  of  the  voyage ;  then,  behold  the  angles  of  the  figure, 
and  see  if  the  fortunes  are  therein,  and  the  infortunes  remote 
firom  angles,  cadent,  combust,  or  under  the  O  beams,  then 
you  may  judge  the  ship  wiU  go  safe  with  all  her  lading.  But 
if  you  find  the  infortunes  in  angles,  or  succeeding  houses, 

*  We  should,  in  this  latter  case,  prefer  looking  to  the  Ephemeris  for 
the  dtjr  when  $  formed  a  A  of  2^  for  hearing  news,  and  when  $  and 
(  came  to  d  for  his  return. 


106  IKTBODirOTION  TO  ASTEOLO0T. 

there  will  chance  some  hinderance  unto  the  ship.  If  the  in- 
fortune  be  Tj ,  the  vessel  will  strike  ground.  If  (J ,  and  he 
be  in  an  earthy  sign,  he  will  signify  the  same,  or  very  great 
danger  and  damage.  But  if  the  fortunes  cast  their  benevolent 
rays  to  the  place  of  >?  or  (J,  and  the  lords  of  the  angles  and 
of  the  dispositor  of  the  })  be  free,  then  the  ship  shall  labour 
hard,  and  suffer  damage,  yet  the  greater  part  of  the  crew  and 
cargo  shall  be  preserved.  If  (J  afflict  the  lords  of  the  angles, 
and  dispositor  of  ]) ,  the  crew  will  be  in  danger  by  enemies 
or  pirates  ;  and  if  there  be  any  additional  evil  configurations 
among  these  significators,  there  will  be  quarrels  on  board, 
thieving,  and  purloiniag,  &c.,  with  bloodshed :  ^2  causes 
thefts  only,  if  so  situated,  but  no  bloodshed. 

If  the  signs  afflicted  by  Fj ,  (J,  S  (and  ^,  if  he  be  ill  as- 
pected),  be  those  that  signify  the  vessel's  bottom,  or  parts 
under  water,  she  springs  a  leak  ;  if  the  signs  be  unfortunate 
in  the  midheaven,  fiery  signs,  and  (J  thereiu,  there  is  danger 
of  lightning  or  fire ;  if  airy  signs  and  $  afflict,  damage  by 
high  winds.  If  (^  be  in  the  4th,  and  afflicted,  it  denotes  fire 
beneath;  and  if  1^  be  with  him,  spontaneous  combustion. 
If  the  sign  be  n,  ^,  or  rrs,  she  may  be  set  on  fire  by  an 
enemy. 

If  Tj  be  in  the  midheaven,  and  shew  damage,  it  will  be  by 
rotten  sails  or  gear,  and  bad  weather,  foul  winds,  &c.  An  in- 
fortune  in  the  ascendant  shews  damage  to  the  fore  part  of  the 
vessel ;  and  if  the  lord  of  the  ascendant  be  retrograde,  it  de- 
notes that  she  will  put  into  some  harbour ;  and  if  he  be  in  a 
moveable  sign,  she  returns  to  the  very  port  she  sailed  from. 
If  the  lord  of  the  8th  afflict  the  lord  of  the  1st,  and  he  in  the 
8th,  the  ship  wiD  be  injured  according  to  the  nature  of  the 
planet  afflicting.  If  he  impedite  the  J's  dispositor,  the  lord 
of  the  ascendant  and  ]) ,  it  shews  the  death  of  the  master, 
and  probably  of  his  mate.     If  it  be  0  which  is  afflicted,  it 


nrrBODTXOTioN  to  asteologt.  107 

foreshews  evil  to  the  cargo  or  a  bad  market ;  but  if  1/ ,  $ , 
or  S  be  in  the  second,  or  assist  its  lord,  or  the  lord  of  0,  it 
shews  good  profit,  which  will  be  according  to  their  strength. 

K  the  lords  of  the  ascendant,  of  the  })  and  their  dispo- 
dtors  be  slow  in  motion,  the  voyage  will  be  long ;  if  they  be 
swift,  the  ship  will  return  quickly.  If  there  be  ill  aspects  be- 
tween the  lord  of  the  1st  and  the  dispositor  of  })  without  re- 
ception, there  will  be  discord  among  the  seamen,  and  with 
them  and  the  owner.  If  the  lord  of  the  ascendant  be  strongest, 
the  seamen  will  prevail ;  but  if  the  lord  of  the  house  where 
J)  is,  then  the  owner.  If  the  dispositor  of  0  be  not  with 
it,  or  the  lord  of  the  2d  be  weak,  there  will  be  scarcity  of  pro- 
visions, and,  if  they  be  in  watery  signs,  of  fresh  water. 

Pabts  of  a  Ship  ruled  by  the  Sigks. 

T  The  breast,  or  bows  of  the  ship. 
0  The  cutwater,  and  parts  beneath. 
n  The  rudder,  or  stem. 
S  The  bottom,  or  floor. 
Si  The  upper  works. 
15  The  hold. 

£i  The  parts  about  the  water's  edge. 
^  The  seamen's  berths,  or  cabin. 
f  The  seamen  themselves. 
Vf  The  ends  of  the  vessel. 
2S  The  master,  or  captain. 

K  The  oars,  in  gaUeys ;  the  wheels,  in  steam-vessels ;  and 
the  sails  in  others. 


108 


INTEODUCnCMr  TO  ASTBOLOOY. 


Fig.  4. 


ks  Example  of  a  Ship  at  Sba. 

In  December  1644,  a  merchant,  in  London,  having  sent  a 
ship  to  the  coast  of  Spain  to  trade,  had  several  times  news 
that  his  ship  was  wrecked.  He  would  have  given  ^60  per 
cent,  to  insure  her,  but  no  insurance  company  would  meddle, 
no,  not  upon  any  terms.  A  friend  of  the  merchant  asked. 
What  I  thaaght  of  the  ship,  if  sunk  or  living  9  I  gave  my 
opinion,  that  the  ship  was  not  lost,  hut  did  live,  and  though 


rBTTEODirCTION  TO  ASTEOLOGT.  109 

of  late  in  some  dangtVy  yet  was  now  recovered.  My  judgment 
was  founded  on  tlie  considerations  in  act  following : — 

In  the  first  place,  the  ascending  degrees  of  Cancer  shewed 
the  bnlk  or  body  of  the  ship.  I  find  F^  casts  his  Q  from  a 
cardinal  sign,  out  of  the  11th  house,  yery  near  to  the  ascen- 
dant. After  his  D  I  fii^d  })  in  her  exaltation,  casting  a  •)(• 
to  the  ascendant,  interposing  her  -)f  between  the  ^  aspects  of 
^  and  O  in  the  7tii,  which  otherwise  had  been  dangerous, 
for  all  ^  aspects  to  the  ascendant  in  this  judgment  are  dan- 
gerous. From  the  ascendant  afflicted  by  Q  of  T?  >  <^d  P^- 
sence  of  fixed  stars  of  his  nature,  I  judged  the  ship  was  of  ^  's 
nature,  sluggish,  heavy,  and  not  very  sound.  And  s  being 
a  weakly  sign,  made  me  judge  the  ship  was  of  such  nature ; 
{and  it  was  so  confessed).  From  hence,  and  Q  in  the  9th, 
I  judged  that  the  ship  had  been  in  some  distress  in  her  voyage, 
occasioned  by  such  casualties  as  T;  signifies,  viz.  some  leak  or 
damage  in  or  near  her  breast,  as  T,  the  sign  T^  is  in,  repre- 
sents that  part 

But  as  ]) ,  lady  of  the  ascendant,  is  in  the  1 1th  in  her  ex- 
altation, in  no  way  impedited,  and  by  a  benevolent  A  aspect 
applying  to  Q  and  $ ,  and  is  so  near  the  body  of  11 ,  and  as 
all  the  significators  are  above  the  earth,  and  no  infortunes  in 
angles  ;  I  judged  the  ship,  sailors,  and  officers,  were  safe,  and 
in  good  condition.     The  next  Qiteet  was — 

Where  the  Ship  was,  upon  what  Coast,  and  when  any 
News  would  come  of  her  ? 

Herein  I  considered  the  ])  was  fixed,  and  in  the  11th 
house ;  O  is  A  southern  sign,  but  in  an  east  quarter  of 
heaven,  verging  to  the  south ;  her  application  is  to  A  of  $ , 
and  he  in  Vf  a  south  sign  and  west  angle ;  all  this  made  me 
judge  that  the  ship  was  south-west  from  London,  and  upon 
our  own  coasts,  or  near  those  which  lie  between  Ireland  and 
Wales.  I  judged  her  at  that  time  to  be  in  some  harbour,  be- 
cause 0>  where  ])  is,  is  fixed,  and  in  the  11th,  or  house  of 


110  INTEODUCTION  TO  ASTEOLOGT. 

comfort  and  relief,  and  that  she  was  put  in  to  repair.  {It 
proved  that  she  was  in  a  harbour  in  the  west.) 

Because  ])  applied  to  A  of  5?  a^^d  ©,  and  they  in  an 
angle,  and  aU  three  very  swift  in  motion,  and  did  want  but  a 
few  minutes  of  a  perfect  A?  I  judged  there  would  be  news, 
or  a  certain  discovery  of  the  ship  in  a  very  short  time.  The 
significators  being  so  near  a  perfect  aspect,  I  said,  either  that 
night,  or  within  two  days,  the  news  would  arrive.  {And  so 
it  proved,)  And,  observe,  that  it  gave  me  good  encourage- 
ment when  I  saw  ©  disposed  of  by  ^J,  and  that  $,  to  whom 
})  applied,  was  in  reception  with  (J;  also,  that  ])  did  so 
well  apply  to  ©,  lord  of  the  2d,  or  house  of  substance :  a 
sign  that  the  merchant  should  gain  by  that  adventure. 

Besides,  usually  when  ])  applies  to  a  good  aspect  of.  a  re- 
trograde  planet,  it  brings  the  matter  to  an  issue  one  way  or 
other  speedily,  and  when  least  expected  ;  and  it  is  a  general 
maxim,  that  if  })  apply  to  the  fortunes,  or  by  good  aspect 
to  any  planet  or  planets  in  angles,  it  is  reason  that  we  hope 
well,  &c. 


HffTEODTTCTION  TO  ASTROLOGY. 


Ill 


Fig,  5. 


Example  of  another  Ship  at  Sea. 

Here  the  ascendant  and  })  are  significators  of  the  ship, 
and  those  who  sail  in  her.  The  ])  lately  separated  from  a 
D  of  ^  ,  lord  of  the  8th  and  9th,  and  afterwards  ^plied  to 
A  of  Fj ,  then  to  <?  of  ? ,  lord  of  the  12th  and  4th  houses. 
This  shewed  that  the  ship  had  lately  been  in  danger  of  ship- 
wreck :  and  as  the  })  had  been  void  of  coarse,  so  had  no 
news  been  heard  of  her ;  for,  after  being  in  n  o^  ^  in  fixed 
ngns,  and  at  the  time  in  a  cadent  house,  and  then  not  next 


112  INTEODirCTION  TO  ASTBOLO0y. 

applying  to  the  good  aspect  of  any  benefic  planet,  bat  being 
Toid  of  course,  and  then  again  continuing  her  application  out 
of  the  4th  to  ^ ,  who  is  still  lord  of  the  8th,  though  it  was 
by  good  aspect ;  and  then  to  ^f  of  J ,  her  dispositor,  who  is 
in  his  detriment  and  entering  combustion ;  and  11 ,  dispositor 
of  5  »  subterranean,  and  <5  with  (J  and  in  term  of  an  in- 
fortune  ;  and,  moreover,  as  J^  is  in  his  fall  near  the  cusp  of 
the  2d,  I  judged,  by  aU  this,  loss  to  the  merchant.  Besides 
0,  is  in  the  6th  disposed  by  1/ ,  he  retrograde  and  afflicted 
in  the  2d  in  no  aspect  to  0j  the  ])  also  in  n  to  it,  as  also 
y  .  There  being  so  many  ill  testimonies,  I  judged  he  would 
lose  much,  if  not  all,  in  this  ship  ;  and  so  consequently  that 
she  was  cast  away.  {And  so  it  proved.)  The  principal  sig- 
nificator  in  the  4th  and  afflicted,  was  a  sure  sign  of  the  ship 
sinking. 


CHAPTER    XXV. 

JUDGMENTS  CONCEENING  THE   8EC0KD   HOUSE. 

Whether  the  Querent  shall  be  rich  ?  or  have  a  competent 
Fortune  ?  By  what  Means  attain  it  ?  The  time  when  ?  and 
if  it  shall  continue  ? 

Whoever  interrogates,  the  lord  of  the  ascendant  and  the  ]) 
are  invariably  his  significators. 

Consider  the  sign  on  the  2d,  its  lord,  and  the  planets  therein, 
or  aspecting  the  cusp  or  its  lord  ;  also  the  0. 

If  you  find  the  planets  all  angular  or  even  succeedent,  if 
direct  and  swift  in  motion,  it  is  a  good  sign.  If  in  good 
houses,  direct,  and  moderately  well  dignified,  it  is  also  a  good 
sign.     Those  two  rules  are  general. 

If  the  lord  of  the  Ist,  the  ]) ,  and  lord  of  the  2d,  be  joined 
together,  or  if  they  have  good  aspect  to  the  lord  of  the  2d,  or 


iirTEOi>TrcTioi!r  to  astboloi&t.  113 

if  'V  or  $  (SEUEft  a  good  aspect  to  0,  or  if  the  lord  of  the  2d 
or  ])  be  in  the  ascendant,  or  lord  of  the  1st  in  the  2d,  or 
benefics  do  ascend  or  be  found  unafflicted  in  the  2d,  or  Q  be 
there,  all  these  are  testimonies  that  the  querent  need  fear  no 
poverty.  As  the  significators  may  be  strong,  and  the  testi- 
monies numerous,  the  querent  shall  be  in  proportion  rich. 
Always  remember  to  judge  according  to  his  condition  in  life  ; 
for,  qu(Hid  eapax^  it  shall  hi^ppen  to  the  interrogator. 

By  what  Means  attain  it  P 

H  the  lord  of  the  2d  be  in  the  ascendant,  he  may  gain  a 
fortune  unexpectedly,  (especially  if  well  aspected  by  ^,  and 
this  planet  be  strong),  or  gain  it  without  much  labour.  If 
the  lord  of  the  2d  or  the  Moon  promise  substance  by  any 
mutual  ai^ct,  obserre  from  what  house  the  aspect  is,  or 
what  house  ])  rules ;  if  neither  of  these  promise  substance, 
see  what  house  0  and  its  dispositor  be  in. 

If  the  planet  assisting  be  in  the  ascendant,  the  querent  will 
gain  by  his  own  industry,  and,  if  he  be  a  mechanic,  by  his 
own  labour,  care,  or  inyention.  But  if  the  assisting  planet 
be  not  lord  of  the  2d,  he  will  gain  by  well  managing  his  own 
af&irs,  estate,  &c. ;  or  by  such  things  as  are  of  the  nature  of 
that  planet,  the  sign  he  is  in  being  also  considered. 

If  the  lord  of  the  2d  be  in  the  2d,  he  shall  profit  by  his 
own  industry.  If  the  lord  of  the  3d  benefit  the  lord  of  the 
2d,  0,  or  other  significators  of  wealth,  he  will  be  assisted 
by  his  neighbours,  brethren,  or  kindred ;  or  by  removing  to 
that  quarter  from  whence  the  lord  of  the  3d  throws  the 
aspect. 

The  lord  of  the  4th  gives  wealth  by  means  of  his  father, 
or  some  aged  person ;  or  by  taking  lands,  or  purchasing 
houses,  &c. ;  or  by  well  managing  money  lent  him  by  his 
kindred  or  neighbours ;  or  property  left  him  by  his  ancestors. 

I 


114  IKTBODUOTION  TO  iJSTBOLOGr* 

The  lord  of  the  5th  promises  gain  by  cards  or  other  gam- 
i>ling;  or  stock-jobbing;  or  by  holding  office  as  an  am- 
bassador or  messenger.  K  a  man  of  low  quality  ask,  by 
keeping  an  inn,  &c.,  or  being  porter  to  some  institution,  or 
connected  with  theatres,  &c.,  and  such  things  as  the  5th  house 
denotes.  It  may  be  by  well  managing  his  father's  estate,  or 
receiving  something  thereout. 

The  lord  of  the  6th  gives  gain  by  servants,  dealing  in 
small  cattle,  &c.,  or  by  turning  surgeon,  &c.,  if  capable. 

The  lord  of  the  7th  gives  gain  by  means  of  a  wife,  by  the 
sword  or  warfare,  by  contracting  bargains  in  his  way  of  busi- 
ness, or  by  gaining  some  lawsuit,  &c. 

The  lord  of  the  8th  or  planet  therein  denotes  legacies,  or  a 
wife's  portion,  which  may  be  unexpected  at  the  time,  (espe- 
cially if  ^  assist),  or  he  may  suddenly  go  and  settle  in  some 
country  wherein  he  shall  thrive  and  grow  rich. 

The  lord  of  the  9th,  &c.,  gives  property  by  the  wife's  rela- 
tions, or  some  neighbour  of  her's  when  he  did  marry ;  or 
some  clergyman  or  lawyer  shall  befriend  him;  or  if  s  or 
X  be  in  the  9th,  he  may  thrive  by  a  distant  sea  voyage.  But 
if  an  earthy  sign  be  there,  he  may  gain  by  removing  to  the 
part  signified  by  that  sign,  and  by  dealing  in  the  commodities 
belonging  to  that  country,  &c. 

The  lord  of  the  10th,  &c.  promises  gain  by  the  service  of 
the  king  or  some  great  man,  holding  office,  &c.  If  the 
querent  be  young  and  of  small  fortune,  let  him  learn  some 
trade  or  business  that  may  be  shewn  by  the  sign  and  planet 
in  the  10th. 

The  11th  and  its  lord  denote  unexpected  benefit  by  friends, 
or  the  employment  of  some  king,  nobleman  or  other  great 
person. 

If  the  fortunate  aspect  be  cast  from  the  12th  or  by  its 
lord,  the  querent  will  advance  his  fortune  by  great  cattle  or 


INTEODUCnOK  TO  AStBOLOGY.  115 

horse-races;  or  if  the  sign  be  human,  that  is,  U  or  r:s,  by 
means  of  prisons,  &c.,  such  as  being  goyemor  or  turnkey 
of  a  jail,  a  sheriffs  officer,  &c.  If  the  sign  be  T»  d>  or  Vf » 
by  cattle ;  if  tiji^,  by  com*  Herein  mix  your  judgment  with 
reason. 

The  most  assured  testimonies  of  riches  are  if  the  lords  of 
the  1  St,  2d,  and  11  be  joined  in  the  2d,  Ist,  10th,  7th,  4th, 
or  11th  houses ;  or  if  not  in  (5  >  if  they  apply  by  •)(-  or  A 
and  be  in  mutual  reception.  If  they  apply  by  D  or  ^f ,  yet 
have  reception,  the  querent  will  gain  wealth,  though  with 
much  labour  and  pains. 

Sifffu  of  Poverty,  and  its  Cause. 

If  you  find  that  the  querent  will  not  be  rich,  and  he  desire 
to  know  why,  that  he  may  the  better  order  his  affairs  and  be 
wary  of  such  difficulties  as  may  threaten,  then  carefully  ob- 
serve as  follows.  The  planet  afflicting  most  the  lords  of  the 
2d  and  1st,  the  ]) ,  0,  or  their  dispositors,  or  the  cusp  of  the 
2d  or  planet  therein,  shews  the  cause.  If  the  lord  of  the  1st, 
then  the  querent  himself  is  the  cause,  and  the  house  in  which 
he  is  found  may  shew  how.  The  lord  of  the  2d  shews  want 
of  money  or  sufficient  capital  to  set  up  with.  The  lord  of 
the  3d  shews  that  his  kindred  or  neighbours  will  oppose  him 
much,  or  undersell  him,  &c.  And  in  this  way  you  may  go 
through  the  twelve  houses,  judging  the  reverse  of  what  you 
were  instructed  when  the  aspects,  &c.  were  good. 

Caution, — If  the  lord  of  the  2d  or  the  dispositor  of  0  be 
infortnnes,  yet  be  strong  and  well  aspected,  they  may  denote 
gain  as  well  as  1/  or  $,  though  with  less  satisfaction  and 
more  painstaking.  Also  1/  or  $  being  afflicted,  may  obstruct 
as  well  as  any  other ;  for  every  planet  must  do  the  work  for 
which  he  is  by  Providence  assigned.  Again,  wherever  8  may 
be  found,  he  denotes  evil  by  that  house,  as  if  in  the  6th,  by 
evil  servants,  sickness,  &c.  i  2 


116  utteoditctiok  to  astbologt. 


If  the  querent  shall  obtain  the  Substance  he  hath  lent,  or 
which  he  demands  ? 

The  lord  of  the  ascendant  and  ])  are  the  querent's  signifi- 
cators,  the  lord  of  the  2d  denotes  his  substance.* 

The  7th  and  its  lord  denote  the  person  of  whom  he  means 
to  ask  the  money,  and  the  8th  and  its  lord,  &c.,  his  pro- 
perty. Observe  whether  the  lord  of  the  ascendant  or  ])  b^ 
joined  with  the  significator  of  the  quesited's  property,  or  be 
in  good  aspect  with  such  significator.  If  this  be  so,  and  that 
significator  be  a  fortune  or  very  strong,  he  shall  assuredly 
receive  the  money.  If  he  be  an  infortune,  and  there  be  re- 
ception between  him  and  the  querent's  significator,  the 
querent  will  also  receive  his  money,  &c. ;  but  if  the  quesited's 
significator  be  an  evil  planet,  and  there  be  no  reception,  he 
will  hardly  ever  gain  his  desire,  or  with  so  much  delay  and 
difficulty,  he  would  rather  wish  the  thing  undone. 

In  like  manner  if  the  lord  of  the  8th  be  in  the  2d  with 
reception,  it  is  a  sign  he  shall  gain  his  money,  &c.  But  if 
the  lord  of  the  7th  or  8th  be  in  the  1st  or  2d  without  recep- 
tion with  the  querent's  significators  or  lord  of  the  2d,  he 
shall  not  have  his  desire,  but  may  rather  expect  prejudice  in 
the  thing  demanded. 

If  the  lord  of  the  1st  and  })  be  joined  to  a  fortune  that  has 
dignity  in  the  sign  ascending  or  intercepted  in  the  ascendant, 
the  matter  will  be  effected;  or  if  joined  to  an  infortune 
having  such  dignity,  with  reception,  the  business  will  be  dis- 
patched. Or,  if  the  significators  be  joined  to  a  fortune  in 
the  10th  or  11th,  though  without  reception,  the  matter  shaU 
be  perfected. 

*  When  any  planets  are  found  in  a  house  signifying  anything,  they  may 
he  taken  as  weU  as  the  lord  of  the  house. 


IKTBODTJCTION  TO  ASTBOLOGT.  117 

If  one  9haU  acquire  Gain^  or  Profit,  Salary,  ^c,  from  the 
Government^  or  any  Nobleman^  or  Person  of  high  Rank,  ^c,  ? 

This  question  will  serve  for  any  other  of  the  like  nature, 
where  the  querent  is  much  inferior  in  rank  to  the  person  he 
looks  to  for  accomplishing  his  desires. 

The  ascendant,  its  lord  and  the  }) ,  represent  the  querent  as 
usual,  and  the  10th  and  its  lord  the  quesited.  The  2d  is  the 
house  of  property  for  the  querent,  and  the  11th  for  the  per- 
son inquired  ahout. 

If  you  find  tlie  lord  of  the  1st  or  the  })  joined  to  the  lord 
of  the  1 1th,  or  to  any  fortune  in  the  11th,  not  afflicted,  you 
may  affirm  that  the  querent  shall  ohtain  his  money,  salary,  or 
debt,  &c.  Or  if  it  happen  that  the  ])  and  lord  of  the  ascend- 
ant be  joined  to  an  evil  planet  with  reception,  he  may  expect 
to  succeed,  but  not  without  much  solicitation,  and  many 
weary  efibrts.  If  there  be  any  evil  aspect  between  the  signi- 
ficators,  one  being  an  infortune  and  without  reception,  the 
querent  will  never  gain  what  he  desires. 

In  this  question  be  very  careful  to  observe  the  planets' 
tame  essential  dignities,  and  their  mutual  receptions,  and  by 
which  of  their  mutual  dignities  they  receive  each  other.* 

Of  the  Time  when  the  aforesaid  Events  treated  of  in  this 
Chapter  may  happen. 

Herein  diligently  note  to  what  planet  the  lord  of  the  as- 
cendant or  ])  applies,  by  c5  or  aspect.  Consider  how  many 
degrees  are  wanting  of  the  perfect  aspect  or  d ,  and  say  that 
it  shall  be  as  many  days  as  there  are  degrees,  if  they  be  both 
in  cadent  houses;  if  both  in  succeedent  houses,  so  many 
weeks  ;  if  both  in  angles^  so  many  months.  But  if  the  matter 
cannot  possibly  be  effected  in  days  or  weeks,  but  requires 

*  Beoeption  by  house  is  the  most  powerfal ;  then  exaltatioDi  triplicityi 
term,  and  face :  the  latter  is  very  weak. 


118         INTBODUCTION  TO  ASTBOLOGT. 

much  time,  instead  of  mouths  say  years,  and  of  weeks  say 
months,  and  of  days  say  weeks,  &c.  And  if  one  planet  be  in 
an  angle,  and  the  other  in  a  succeedent  house,  they  shall  sig- 
nify months ;  one  succeedent,  and  the  other  cadent,  they  de- 
note weeks ;  and  when  one  be  angular  and  the  other  cadent, 
months.'*' 

Some  of  the  ancients  have  said,  that  if,  at  the  time  of  a 
question,  the  planet  which  signifies  the  perfection  of  the  thing 
demanded  be  in  the  same  sign  with  the  lord  of  the  ascendant, 
the  matter  shall  be  brought  to  conclusion  when  they  come 
to  bodily  conjunction  ;  if  the  lord  of  the  ascendant  be  the 
heavier  planet,  and  whether  there  be  reception  or  not.  But 
if  the  lord  of  the  ascendant  be  the  lighter  planet,  not  without 
reception,  unless  they  be  in  an  angle  when  the  conjunctioa 
shall  be  effected,  or  that  the  other  planet  be  in  one  of  his  own 
houses,  especially  that  which  is  termed  his  joy.f 

I  have  observed  that  reception  by  house,  though  the  aspect 
were  a  Q,  or  even  ^f ,  brings  things  to  perfection;  but  that 
other  receptions  avail  not  in  this  case. 

As  regards  the  time  when;  I  find  that  if  a  fortune,  or  the 
]) ,  or  lord  of  the  thing  quesited,  be  in  the  ascendant,  and 
have  any  essential  dignities  therein,  the  number  of  degrees 
between  the  planet  and  the  cusp  of  the  ascendant  denote  the 
time ;  days,  if  a  moveable  sign,  and  the  business  capable  of 
being  quickly  perfected ;  months,  or  years,  according  to  the 
sign  and  quaUty  of  the  business. 

*  There  appears  a  species  of  confusion  in  this  arrangement,  which  is 
the  reverse  of  the  usual  system,  of  allowing  angles  to  produce  events 
quicker  than  cadents.  We  should  advise  the  student  to  he  careful  in  bis 
experiments  before  he  adopt  it. 

t  Joyt  qfthe  Planets : 

s»,  h;  /,  1^  ;  n,  ^;  :£^i  ?;  iw,  $.  Ihese  are  not  usually  noticed 
by  modem  astrologers. 


INTBODXJCTIOK  TO  ASTBOLOOY. 
F^.  6. 


Hd 


Example. — A  tradesman  of  London,  in  the  year  1634,  pro- 
ponnded  the  following  queries.  I  have  seen  the  experience 
of  my  judgment. 

QvsBlES. — 1st.  I/he  should  be  Rich,  or  subsist  himself 
without  Marriage  ? 

2d.  By  what  Means  he  should  attain  Wealth  ? 

3d.  The  Time  when  ? 

4th.  If  it  would  continue  ? 

Ist  QuxBY. — If  the  Querent  should  be  Rich,  or  subsist 

himself  without  Marriage. 
I  first  considered  the  general  disposition  of  the  planets ; 


120  nrrBODUCTioifir  to  ASTBOLoex^ 

and  found  the  major  number,  especially  the  fortunes,  swift  in 
motion,  well  posited,  and  not  afllicted.  Also,  that  ? ,  lady 
of  the  ascendant,  was  near  Cor  Leonis,  a  star  of  great  virtue 
and  influence  ;  })  increasing  in  light,  1/  almost  culminating. 
Hence  I  formed  this  general  judgment,  that  he  should  live  in 
good  rank  and  quality  among  his  neighbours,  &c,  (quoad 
capax)  according  to  his  calling.  Secondly,  whether  he  should 
be  rich  or  not  ?  I  considered  that  the  lord  of  the  2d  is  in  the 
ascendant,  and  being  also  lord  of  0,  is  near  Spica  Virgina^ 
in  18**  £i:.*  Then  %  (a  general  signincator  of  wealth)  was 
in  his  exaltation  and  angular,  casting  his  Q  to  the  cusp  of 
the  ascendant,  which  D  in  signs  of  long  ascension  we  usually 
repute  a  A-t  Also,  that  })  separated  from  a  •)(•  of  (J,  lord 
of  the  2d,  &c.,  significator  of  the  thing  demanded,  and  d  of 
5 ,  and  applied  to  cJ  ?  >  the  querent's  signiflcator ;  transfer- 
ring the  light  and  virtue  of  both  $  and  ^ ,  to  the  proper  sig- 
nificator of  the  querent.  The  dispositor  of  ])  is  0>  and  he 
strong  and  powerful,  the  0  in  a  fixed  sign,  and  in  the  terms 
of  $  ;  from  all  which  I  judged  that  the  querent  would  ac- 
quire an  estate,  and  have  a  competent  fortune ;  but  as  it  is 
signified  by  an  infortune,  that  he  would  attain  it  by  labour  and 
care.  {And  so  to  this  day  he  hath,)  And  as  (^,  lord  of  the  7th 
(the  house  of  marriage),  hath  the  most  material  signification 
of  the  thing  demanded,  viz.  wealth,  I  advised  him  to  marry, 
and  said,  that  without  marriage  he  should  not  so  well  subsist. 
2d  QuEBT. — By  what  Means  he  should  attain  Riches  f 
In  this  scheme,  ^  being  the  planet  signifying  wealth,  as 
lord  of  the  0  and  the  second  house,  and  placed  in  the  as- 

*  This  star  has  now  advanced  to  22°  ^. 

t  Signs  of  long  ascension,  are  25,  S^tttx,  £>»,  nt,  /.  Signs  of  short 
ascension,  are  vf,  «%,}(,  T,  8 ,  n.  In  the  former  a  ^  is  taken  for  a 
D ,  and  a  D  for  a  A  ;  and  in  the  hitter,  a  D  is  taken  for  a  ^,  and  a  A 
for  a  D .  We  advise  the  student  to  r^ect  these  distinctions,  whi<^  oidy 
tend  to  create  confusion. 


nirrBODiTcnox  to  astbologt.  121 

cendant,  signifies  property  got  by  the  querent's  own  indostry. 
And  as  ^  is  lord  of  the  7th,  I  said,  he  would  marry  a  woman 
who  would  produce  him  a  good  fortune ;  and  it  more  than  he 
could  wen  look  for,  and  of  a  settled  nature ;  which  I  judged 
hy  $ ,  lady  of  his  wife's  house  of  property,  being  so  well 
fortified.  And  as  $  was  lady  of  the  10th,  (house  of  trade), 
and  was  transferring  the  light  of  $  and  (^  to  $  his  sig- 
nificator,  I  advised  him  to  be  diligent  in  his  profession,  and 
that  he  would  thereby  gain  a  good  estate.  (He  has  since  had 
a  good  fortune  with  his  m/e,  money,  and  land,  and  been  very 
successful  in  trade).  Jupiter,  so  strong  in  the  10th,  was  an 
infallible  sign  (according  to  natural  causes)  of  plenty  of  trade, 
or  a  gainful  profession. 

3d  QsTE&Y.—The  Time  when  ? 

All  the  significators  oriental,  and  five  planets  swift  in  motion, 
promise  property  in  a  short  time  after  the  question ;  and  $, 
the  chief  significator  of  the  thing  inquired  after,  being  swift 
in  motion,  argues  the  same.  The  distance  from  the  ascend- 
ant to  $  being  about  two  degrees,  signified  about  two  years, 
at  which  time  he  had  a  portion  with  his  wife.  The  J)  wanted 
6*  27'  of  her  d  with  ?  :  hence  I  concluded  that  about  1640 
he  should  have  very  great  trading,  and  Hye  in  excellent  repute ; 
and  as  $  is  seated  on  the  cusp  of  the  1 1th,  (or  house  of  friends), 
that  he  should  have  many  good  Mends,  &c.,  by  whom  he 
should  increase  his  estate. 

4th  Qttbet. — If  the  Querent  should  continue  rich  ? 

This  I  resolyed  by  the  cusp  of  the  2d,  which  being  a  fixed 
sign  and  0  therein,  and  1/  in  his  exaltation  and  angular, 
and  $ ,  the  dispositor  of  ^ ,  being  in  £2  >  ^  ^edi  sign,  as  also 
the  >  in  Q ,  all  implied  that  he  should  continue  in  a  plentiful 
estate,  and  that  the  riches  God  should  bless  him  with  would 
be  permanent,  and  that  he  should  never  be  reduced  to  want 
or  poverty. 


122  UraEODTTOTIOir  to  iLSTBOLOGX, 

There  was  only  one  thing  arising  out  of  the  figure^  of  which 
I  cautioned  him.  The  0>  ^ord  of  the  1 1th,  heholds  0  by  D> 
as  also  the  cusp  of  the  2d ;  and  as  O  ^^f e  signifies  Mends, 
I  exhorted  him  to  avoid  confiding  in  solar  men,  though  of 
much  friendship  with  him.  In  aU.  such  cases  describe  the 
planet  afflicting,  and  you  give  caution  sufficient."^ 


CHAPTER  XXVL 


OP  THE  THIED  HOUSE,   TIZ.    OP  BEETHEEK,    SISTESS,   KDT- 
DEED,   NEWS,    SHOET  JOUENETS,  ETC. 

The  chief,  but  not  the  only,  questions  regarding  this  house 
are  those  concerning  brethren,  cousins,  or  neighbours,  and 
short  journeys* 

QxTEET. — Shall  the  Querent  agree  well  with  his  Brother  or 
Neighbour  P 

The  querent  has  the  usual  significators ;  the  quesited  is 
shewn  by  the  lord  of  the  3d,  the  cusp  of  the  3d,  and  the 
planets  therein.  If  the  lord  of  the  3d  be  a  benevolent  planet, 
or  be  in  the  ascendant,  or  there  be  a  fortune  in  the  3d,  or  the 
respective  lords  be  in  good  aspect  or  mutual  reception,  or  the 
lord  of  the  ascendant  throw  a  good  aspect  to  the  cusp  of  the 
3d,  no  doubt  unity  will  endure  between  the  parties.  If  the 
evil  planets,  or  8,  be  found  in  the  3d,  unless  very  well  dig- 
nified and  aspected,  it  denotes  discord,  and  the  querent  may 
expect  little  good  from  the  quesited.  If  there  be  evil  aspects 
between  their  significators,  the  same  judgment  holds ;  and  if 
the  significators  are  afflicted  by  being  peregrine,  retrograde, 
or  combust,  it  shews  hatred  or  untoward  conduct. 

*  The  description  of  0  m  SI,  would  herein  answer  the  exact  kind  of 
persons  who  might  injure  the  querent's  property. 


nrmoDucTiOK  to  AaxBOLOOT.  123 

T;  or  Q  in  the  third,  shews  the  neighbours  are  ili-maDnered 
and  the  kindred  selfish ;  if  ^^  be  there,  the  neighbours  are 
dishonest,  and  the  relations  treacherous.  If  they  be  out  of 
their  dignities,  these  evils  are  increased ;  and  if  ill  planets  be 
iu  the  ascendant,  or  3  be  there,  the  querent  is  himself  ill 
conducted. 

Of  an  absent  Brother  ? 

The  Ist,  and  its  lord  and  ]),  are  for  the  querent;  the  3d 
for  the  quesited ;  and  the  4th,  his  house  of  substance,  &c. 

Consider  in  what  condition  the  lord  of  the  3d  is,  in  what 
house,  and  how  aspected.  If  he  be  iu  the  3d,  free  from  evil 
aiqpects  of  the  infortunes,  you  may  judge  that  the  absent  bro^ 
ther  is  in  health.  If  he  be  in  his  own  house,  but  afflicted  by 
the  eyil  planets,  without  reception,  judge  that  he  is  in  health, 
but  in  great  perplexity  and  sorrow ;  but  if  they  so  aspect  him 
with  reception,  say,  that  he  is  in  distress,  but  that  he  will 
shortly  evade  it,  and  rid  himself  of  his  troubles.  If  the  for- 
tunes aspect  him  by  •)(•  or  A  without  reception,  or  by  D  or 
^  with  reception,  you  may  judge  him  to  be  in  health,  and 
well  contented ;  and  if  they  aspect  him  by  •)(-  or  Ai  and 
there  be  reception,  you  may  tell  the  querent  that  his  brother 
is  healthy  and  happy,  and  wants  nothing  in  this  world. 

If  the  lord  of  the  3d  be  in  the  4th,  without  aspects  of  the 
malefics,  he  is  endeavouring  to  get  property  in  the  country 
where  he  then  lives.  If  he  be  in  the  5th,  and  joined  by  (5, 
or  good  aspect  to  the  lord  of  the  5th,  if  the  latter  be  not 
much  afflicted,  he  is  healthy,  jocund,  and  merry,  and  likes 
the  society  he  is  in.  If  it  be  a  fortune,  and  there  be  a  recep^ 
tion  between  the  lords  of  the  two  houses,  the  3d  and  5th  (his 
3d),  you  are  assured  of  his  happy  condition.  Yet  if  it  be  a 
malefic,  or  he  be  in  evil  aspect  vdth  a  malefic  in  the  5tht 
without  reception,  or  if  he  be  void  of  course  while  in  the  5th| 


124  INTEODrCTION  TO  ASTBOLOGT^ 

you  may  judge  that  he  is  restlefis,  and  discontented  in  his 
present  abode.  Grenerally,  if  he  be  afflicted  in  any  but  the 
6th,  8th,  or  12th  houses,  he  is  not  very  comfortable,  yet  not 
in  ill  health. 

If  he  be  in  the  8th,  and  well  aspected  by  a  fortune,  he  is 
not  in  danger,  yet  he  is  indisposed.  If  he  be  joined  to  eyil 
planets  by  bad  aspects  out  of  the  6th,  he  is  in  an  infirm 
and  dangerous  state.  The  same,  if  the  lord  of  his  6th  be  in 
the  3d,  unless  he  have  dignities  therein.  If,  in  this  case,  the 
lord  of  the  3d  be  d  with  the  lord  of  the  8th,  or  entering 
combustion  at  the  same  time,  with  other  testimonies  of  his 
being  ill,  there  is  reason  to  fear  that  he  will  die. 

If  you  find  his  significator  in  the  7th,  he  is  still  in  the  coun- 
try he  went  to,  and  indifTerently  well. 

If  the  lord  of  the  3d  be  m  the  8th,  he  apprehends  that  he 
shall  die ;  and  there  is  great  fear  of  his  death  if  his  significator 
be  combust,  in  cS  with  the  lord  of  the  8th,  or  afflicted  by 
CTil  planets. 

If  his  significator  be  in  the  9th,  he  is  gone  to  some  country 
further  off  than  when  he  first  went,  or  is  forming  some  clerical, 
legal,  or  scientific  connexion,  or  is  employed  travelling. 

If  he  be  in  the  10th,  and  well  aspected  by  the  fortunes, 
especially  if  with  reception,  he  has  got  some  good  employ- 
ment, or  office,  in  the  country  to  which  he  is  gone.  If  com- 
bust and  afflicted,  there  is  fear  that  he  is  dead. 

If  he  be  in  the  eleventh,  and  joined  to  the  lord  of  the  1  Ith^ 
it  denotes  he  is  well  situated,  with  his  ftiends,  and  happy ; 
though  if  evil  planets  afflict  him,  he  is  not  so  well  pleased 
with  his  present  condition. 

If  he  be  in  the  12th,  and  well  aspected,  he  is  engaged  with 
horses  or  cattle,  &c.,  keeping  an  inn,  or  is  turned  grazier,  &o. 
If  ill  aspected  in  this  or  the  2d  house,  he  is  in  trouble,  and  if 
in  a  fixed  sign,  probably  in  prison ;  yet,  if  his  significator  be 


nrTBODTTCnOK  TO  ASTBOLOOY.  125 

retrograde,  be  will  manage  to  escape.  If  in  the  ascendant, 
he  is  very  pleasantly  situated ;  and,  unless  ill  aspected,  he  is 
much  respected. 

If  any  other  person  than  a  brother  be  inquired  of,  his  con- 
dition may  be  known  by  applying  the  foregoing  rules  to  that 
person's  significator.  As,  for  example,  if  the  quesited  be  the 
querent's  father,  let  the  lord  of  the  5th  (the  2d  from  the  4th) 
be  considered  for  his  substance.  And  if  the  quesited  be  a 
friend,  let  the  1 1th  house  represent  him,  and  then  the  12th 
will  be  his  2d,  or  house  of  property ;  the  8th  will  be  his 
10th,  or  house  of  honour,  &c. ;  and  so  all  round  the  1 2 
booses.  But  understand  that,  though  every  house  has  its 
6th,  8th,  and  1 2th,  yet  of  erery  person  inquired  after,  the 
6th  house  of  the  figure  shall  signify  his  sickness,  the  8tb  his 
death,  the  12th  his  imprisonment. 

Of  Reports,  News,  Rumours^  ^c.  whether  true  or  false  ?  and 
whether  importing  Good  or  Evil  ? 

That  which  I  found  true  by  experience  (in  our  late  sad 
times  of  war)  was  this  :  if  I  found  })  in  the  ascendant,  10th, 
11th,  or  3d  house,  separating  by  benevolent  aspect  from  any 
phmet,  and  then  applying  by  good  aspect  to  tiie  lord  of  the 
1st ;  I  say,  I  found  the  report  or  rumour  true,  but  always 
tending  to  the  good  of  the  parhament,  let  the  report  be  good 
or  ill.  But  if  ])  appHed  to  the  lord  of  the  7th  by  any  good 
•spect,  I  was  sure  we  had  the  worst,  and  our  enemies  the 
victory.  If  the  })  was  void  of  course,  the  news  proved  of 
no  moment,  usually  vain  and  false,  and  soon  contradicted.  If 
the  )  and  5  were  in  □  or  ^f ,  without  reception,  and  nei- 
ther casting  a  good  aspect  to  the  degree  ascending,  the  news 
wwi  false,  and  reported  purposely  to  alarm  us. 

The  time  of  erecting  the  figure  was  ever  the  hour  when  I 


126  nrrEODUOTioir  to  ASTEOLoar, 

first  heard  the  rumour ;  but,  if  another  propounded  it»  then 
that  very  minute  when  it  was  first  proposed. 

If,  on  hearing  of  any  matter,  you  desire  to  know  whether 
it  will  be  prejudicial  to  you  or  not,  observe  whether  7/  or  ? 
be  in  the  ascendant,  or  ])  or  $  in  any  of  their  essential  digni- 
ties, in  •)(-  or  A  to  the  lord  of  the  1 1  th ;  you  may  then  judge  that 
the  party  inquiring  shall  receive  no  damage  thereby.  But  if 
the  lord  of  the  6th,  8th,  or  12th,  be  in  the  ascendant,  or  in  evil 
aspect  to  the  lord  of  the  ascendant,  or  a  malefic  retrograde  in 
the  ascendant,  of  afflicting  its  lord,  or  the  degree  ascending, 
then  the  querent  will  be  prejudiced  by  the  matter.  But  if  it 
concern  the  pubHc,  some  damage  has  happened  to  their  minis- 
ters or  friends.  In  this  case,  if  T^  denote  the  evil>  he  shews 
plundering,  loss  of  com,  or  cattle,  &c. ;  ^  causes  straggling 
parties  to  be  cut  off",  and  military  violence,  bloodshed,  &c. ; 
^  the  miscarriage  of  letters,  or  evil  to  the  literary  commu- 
nity, messengers,  &c. ;  Q  causes  distress  to  the  king,  or 
some  chief  or  leader ;  $  causes  ill  to  some  gentlemen  or 
their  friends.  The  ])  denotes  violence  by  mobs,  and  if  she 
be  afflicted,  injuries  are  done  to  the  people. 

If  Rumours  be  true  or  false,  according  to  the  Ascmisrra. 

If  the  lord  of  the  ascendant,  the  moon,  or  her  dispositor, 
be  in  an  angle  or  a  fixed  sign,  and  in  good  aspect  to  the  for- 
tunes, or  the  O,  you  may  judge  the  rumour  is  true.  If  they 
be  in  moveable  signs,  cadent,  and  iU  aspected  by  the  infor- 
tunes,  judge  the  reverse ;  and  consider  the  majority  of  the 
testimonies.  When  the  angles  of  the  figure,  the  J ,  and  $' , 
are  in  fixed  signs,  and  these  latter  separate  £rom  infortunes 
and  apply  to  fortunes,  the  rumour  is  true.  Evil  rumours 
hold  true,  or  wiU  be  in  some  way  verified,  if  the  angles  of  the 
4th  and  10th  are  fixed,  and  the  J  therein.  If  you  have  evil 
news,  yet  if  either  fortune  be  in  the  ascendant,  or  the  ]>  for- 


UrrEODircTioir  to  astbology.  127 

tunate,  it  is  a  strong  argument  tliat  the  rumours  are  false,  and 
that  they  will  turn  rather  to  good  than  evil.  Mercury,  or  the 
planet  to  whom  he  or  ])  applies,  being  retrograde  or  afflicted, 
or  if  either  of  these  two  be  lord  of  the  ascendant,  it  signifies 
that  the  rumour  shall  vanish  to  nothing,  or  shall  be  converted 
to  good.  If  the  lord  of  the  ascendant  be  under  the  beams 
of  0*,  the  matter  is  kept  secret,  and  few  shall  ever  know  the 
truth. 

Of  Counsel  or  Advice  given  by  a  Neighbour,  or  Relation, 
Friend,  ^c. 

Erect  the  figure  when  first  the  party  begins  to  break  their 
tnind,  and  you  shall  know  whether  they  really  wish  you  well 
or  not,  and  whether  it  be  good  to  follow  their  advice. 

If  there  be  in  the  10th  house  either  Q,  11,  ?,  or  Q,  or 
if  i  apply  hy  good  aspect  to  the  lord  of  the  ascendant, 
judge  they  come  with  an  honest  heart,  and  the  advice  is  in- 
tended for  your  good.  If  I|l  ^2 ,  c?»  ©^  O  ^®  there,  or  if  J 
apply  by  evil  aspect,  they  intend  deceitfully.  Halj/  affirms, 
that  if  the  sign  ascending  be  moveable,  and  the  >  and  lord 
of  the  ascendant  are  both  in  moveable  signs,  the  party  comes 
to  deceive,  t 

Cf  short  Journeys,  whether  good  to  go  or  not  ? 

By  a  short  journey,  I  mean  such  distances  as  a  person  may 
go  and  come  back  in  a  day  or  two.  Consider  the  lord  of  the 
ascendant,  and  whether  he  be  swift  in  motion,  and  in  the  3d, 

*  This  rignifiet  within  a  distance  of  12  degrees  of  0.  Modem  authors 
taj  17  degrees. 

t  If  the  advice  be  intended  im  your  benefit,  yet  it  may  not  be  well  to 
follow  it.  This  may  be  seen  by  the  lord  of  the  4th,  and  planets  therein ; 
far  if  malefics  be  there,  or  the  lord  of  the  4th  afliict  the  lord  of  the  as- 
cendant, it  win  end  iU :  if  good  planets  be  there,  it  ends  well. — Zad. 


128  iNTBOSiroTioir  to  astboloof. 

or  in  any  of  the  dignities  of  the  lord  of  that  house ;  or  in 
good  aspect  with  its  lord,  or  a  planet  therein ;  or  if  the  ]) 
apply  to  such  aspect,  or  he  in  the  3d,  or  cast  her  •)(-  or  A  to 
the  degree  ascending,  or  he  swift  in  motion  ;  all  these  are  ar- 
guments that  the  party  shall  go  his  short  journey,  and  have 
success.  The  part  of  heaven  in  which  the  place  hes  to  which 
he  would  go  is  known  hy  the  situation  of  }) ,  the  sign  on  the 
cusp  of  the  3d,  or  its  lord,  whichever  may  be  strongest  in  es- 
sential dignities.  If  the  chief  significator  be  in  a  northern 
sign,  he  goes  north,  and  so  of  the  rest. 

Examples. 

In  November  1645,  a  citizen  of  London  having  gone  into 
the  west  of  England,  and  no  news  being  heard  of  him  for 
many  weeks,  his  brother,  with  great  importunity,  moved  me 
to  give  my  judgment  concerning  these  particulars. 

The  figure,  erected  at  the  moment  of  the  question,  is  on 
the  following  page  ;  and  the  particulars  of  the  judgment  on 
each  of  three  queries,  which  were  put  on  the  occasion,  will 
be  found  to  follow. 


INTEODUCTION  TO  ASTB0L06T. 
Fig  7. 


129 


1[\^26:^ 


8e:9€1\ 


QlTEBTIOKS  BEGABDiNa  AK  ABSENT  BbOTHEB. 

Ist. — If  Living  or  Bead?  if  Dead,  whether  Killed  by 
Soldiers  9  for  at  this  time  our  miserable  kingdom  was  full  of 
soldiers. 

2d. — If  Living,  when  he  should  hear  of  him  ?  and  where 
he  was  ? 

3d. — When  he  should  come  Home? 

Ist  Qtjebt. — If  Living  or  Dead? 
The  ascendant  doth  here  represent  the  shape  and  form  of 


130  iNTBomJOTioir  to  ASTBOLoar. 

him  who  asked  the  question,  witii  consideration  had  to  T^ » 
lord  of  the  sign.  The  querent  was  lean,  spare  of  body,  and 
a  real  saturnine  man,  &c, 

0  is  the  ascendant  of  the  3d  house,  and  ?  being  lady 
thereof,  represented  the  absent  brother. 

? ,  the  significator  of  the  quesited,  being  noways  afficted, 
either  by  J ,  lord  of  the  8th  in  the  figure,  or  (J ,  lord  of  the 
quesited's  8th :  and  the  separation  of  the  ])  being  good, 
viz,  a  A  of  Hjt,  and  (^  of  J,  who  is  in  good  aspect  to  IJ., 
and  going  to  (5  of  Q  on  the  cusp  of  the  midheaven,  I  judged 
the  absent  brother  waa  alive,  and  had  had  no  manner  of  ac- 
cident, but  was  in  good  health. 

2d  QxTEET. — When  he  should  hear  of  him  ? 

?  lady  of  the  3d  applies  to  a  friendly  A  of  »2 ,  lord  of 
the  ascendant,  and  T2  being  retrograde,  applies  also  to  the 
aspect  of  $  ;  a  very  good  argument  that  the  querent  should 
hear  news  of  his  brother  very  suddenly.  And  if  you  look 
into  the  Ephemeris  for  7th  November,  1645,  you  will  find 
that,  about  four  o'clock  on  that  very  day,  the  A  aspect  be- 
tween ?  and  Tj  was  formed.  I  therefore  advised  the  querent 
to  go  to  the  carriers  of  those  countries  where  he  knew  his 
brother  had  been,  and  ask  when  they  saw  the  quesited ;  for  I 
told  him  that  it  was  probable  that  he  should  hear  of  him  that 
very  day.  {He  has  since  confidently  affirmed^  that  about  the 
very  moment  of  time,  viz,  about  four,  a  carrier  came  casually 
where  he  was,  and  informed  him  that  his  brother  was  living, 
and  in  health.) 

Where  he  was  ? 

His  journey  was  into  the  west.  At  time  of  the  question  I 
find  $,  his  significator,  leaving  J: ,  a  north-east  sign,  and 
entering  Vf ,  a  south  sign ;  whereon  I  judged  he  was  in  the 


1NTB0J)UCTI0N   TO  ASTBOLOGT.  131^ 

soath-east  part  of  the  county  unto  which  he  went.  And 
as  $  was  not  far  out  of  the  ascendant^  and  was  in  the 
oriental  quarter  of  heaven,  that  he  was  not  above  one  or  two 
days'  journey  from  London ;  and  as  $  was  leaving  f ,  and 
entering  a  sign  in  which  she  has  dignities  by  triplidty  and 
term^  I  judged  the  man  was  leaving  the  country  where  he  had 
no  possession  or  habitation,  and  was  coming  to  his  own  house 
in  London,  where  he  had  good  property.  As  ?  wanted  one 
degree  of  getting  out  of  the  sign,  I  judged  he  would  be  at 
home  in  less  than  one  week ;  for  ^  is  a  common  sign,  and 
one  degree  therein  in  this  question  might  well  denote  one 
week.  He  came  home  on  the  following  Tuesday,  when  ]) 
came  to  (^  ? ,  she  being  then  got  into  Vf ,  in  her  own  term 
and  diurnal  triplidty.  The  two  significators  being  in  A> 
these  two  brothers  always  did,  and  do,  live  very  amicably 
together. 


132 


DffTltODUCITIOH'  TO  ASTEOLOaT. 

Fig.  8. 


QuEEY. — If  a  Rumour  or  Report  were  true  or  not  ? 

In  1643,  his  Majesty's  army  being  then  rampant,  several 
reports  were  given  out  that  his  Majesty  had  taken  Cambridge, 
&c. :  a  well-aflFected  person  inquired  of  me  if  the  news  were 
true  or  false?  whereupon  I  erected  this  figure,  and  gave 
judgment : — ''  All  that  we  heard  was  untruth,  and  that  the 
town  neither  was  or  should  be  taken  by  him  or  his  forces.** 

A  Report  that  Cambridge  was  taken  by  the  King^s  Forces ; 
if  true? 

First,  I  considered  that  the  angles  were  all  moveable,  and 


DfTBODUCTION  TO  ASTROLOGY.  133 

that  the  evil  ^  vitiated  the  cusp  of  the  10th,  and  Vi  that  ot 
the  7th ;  one  argument  that  the  report  was  false. 

Secondly,  the  ])  was  cadent,  and  in  n>  a  sign  wherein  she 
is  very  weak :  a  second  such  argument. 

Thirdly,  the  ^  on  the  cusp  of  the  ascendant  was  a  sign  of 
good  to  the  Parliament,  for  the  first  house  signified  that  hon- 
ourahle  society.  $ ,  lady  of  the  ascendant,  was  in  her  exal- 
tation, hut  (^,  lord  of  the  7th,  our  enemies,  in  his  fall,  viz.  s, 
and  afflicted  hy  D  of  ^.  The  ])  separating  from  %  in  the 
7th,  and  transferring  his  light  to  $ ,  gave  reason  to  expect 
that  there  would  come  good  to  our  side  by  this  report  or 
rumour,  and  no  benefit  to  the  enemy.  The  D  of  ^  and  ^ 
assured  me  that  our  enemies  were  so  full  of  division  and  trea- 
son, and  so  thwarting  one  the  other's  designs,  that  no  good 
should  come  unto  them  by  this  report.  And  so,  in  short,  I 
judged  that  Cambridge  was  not  taken,  and  that  what  we  heard 
was  false.* 


Had  this  question  been,  Whether  the  querent  would  have 
brethren  or  not  ?  then  you  should  judge  as  follows  : — 

The  sign  on  the  3rd  Hi,  is  fruitful ;  s  >  the  sign  in  which 
the  lord  of  die  3d  is  found,  is  fruitful,  and  the  ])  apphes 
to  %  ;  signs  that  the  querent  might  expect  both,  but  chiefly 
sisters,  as  the  signs  are  mostly  feminine. 

*  If  the  student  erect  a  fig^ore  for  lOh.  53in.  a.m.  Dec.  23d,  1834,  he 
win  find  t  1&  on  the  10th,  and  })  in  ^^  0 :  15  in  the  7th,  applying 
to  a  of  0»  knrd  of  the  7th.  We  erected  this  figure  on  hearing  a  rumour 
of  several  persons  being  cruelly  slaughtered  by  soldiers  at  Kathcormac,  in 
Ireland,  for  the  purpose  of  collecting  tithes.  The  J)  being  angular  and 
afflicted,  shewed  that  the  etU  report  was  true ;  and  ^  being  exactly  on 
the  cusp  of  the  ascendant,  m  23 :  30,  was  a  similar  testimony.  ^  was 
in  /  16 :  35  on  the  cusp  of  the  10th,  shewing  discredit  to  the  govern- 
ment,  arising  out  of  the  transaction.  The  coroner's  jury  found  a  verdict 
of  icwjftt/  murder. 


134  IKTBODirCTIOir  TO  ASTEOLOOT. 


CHAPTER  XXVII. 

OP  THE  FOXTETH  HOUSE,   XSJ}  JXTDGMENTS  DEPBNDWa 
THEEEON. 

Thi8  ia  the  House  of  Parents,  Lands,  Tenements,  Cities, 
Towns,  Villages,  Farms,  Castles,  Treasure  found,  ^c,,  or  of 
any  Thing  hidden  in  the  ground  ;  also  of  the  Grave. 

Rule. — To  Find  a  Thing  hidden  or  mislaid. 

Be  careful  to  consider  to  whom  the  thing  hidden,  &c.  may 
belong  :  if  the  goods  did  belong  to  the  querent,  take  the  lord 
of  the  2d ;  but  if  to  his  brother  or  sister,  regard  the  lord  of 
the  4th ;  if  to  his  father,  the  lord  of  the  5th ;  if  to  his 
mother,  the  lord  of  the  11th,  and  so  of  other  persons ;  if  to 
a  stranger  to  the  querent,  or  one  who  is  no  relation,  take  the 
lord  of  the  8th.  If  you  find  the  lord  of  the  house  of  pro- 
perty is  in  any  angle,  judge  the  thing  missing  is  within  the 
house  of  him  who  is  the  owner.  And  if  the  lord  of  the 
property  is  in  the  ascendant,  or  disposed  of  by  the  lord  of  the 
ascendant,  by  house,  or  in  the  same  sign  with  him,  say  it  is 
in  that  part  of  the  house  wherein  he  most  frequents,  or  lays 
up  his  goods,  or  such  things  as  he  most  delights  in.  But  if 
the  lord  of  the  quesited's  property  be  in  the  10th,  it  is  then 
in  his  shop,  if  he  keep  one,  or,  if  he  be  a  gentleman,  in  his 
dining-room ;  if  he  be  a  farmer,  it  is  in  the  common  room  of 
the  residence,  or  first  room  after  you  enter  the  house.  If  the 
lord  of  the  property  be  in  the  7th,  it  is  then  in  that  part 
where  the  quesited's  wife  or  his  maid-servants  have  most  to 
do.  If  in  the  4th,  it  is  where  the  most  aged  of  the  house 
lodges,  or  formerly  did  most  frequent ;  or  in  the  middle  of 
the  house,  or  in  the  most  ancient  part,  or  where  his  father  or 


utteodtjction  to  astrology.  135 

some  elderly  man  lodged.  The  nature  and  quality  of  the 
place  are  known  by  the  signs  the  significators  are  in ;  for  if 
the  sign  of  the  second  be  airy^  or  the  greater  part  of  the  sig- 
nificators,  including  the  sign  where  0  is,  be  the  same,  the 
thing  is  hid  in  the  eaves,  or  the  upper  part  of  the  room  where 
it  is,  or  on  high  from  the  ground  ;  and  if  the  thing  be  in  an 
orchard  or  garden,  it  is  higher  than  the  ground,  or  upon  some 
tree,  line,  &c.,  or  is  on  the  highest  hill  or  part  of  the  ground. 
If  the  said  significators  be  strong,  and  in  watery  signs,  it  is 
in  the  dairy,  or  washhouse,  brewhouse,  or  near  water.  If 
they  be  m  fiery  signs,  it  is  near  the  chimney,  or  the  walls  of 
the  house,  or  where  iron  is  found.  If  in  earthy  signs,  the 
thing  is  on  the  ground  or  earth,  or  near  some  pavement  or 
floor ;  and  if  the  thing  lost  be  out  of  the  house,  it  wiU  be 
found  near  the  bridge,  stile,  or  gate,  where  people  come  into 
the  grounds. 

If  the  significator  be  going  out  of  one  sign  into  another, 
the  thing  is  behind  something,  or  fallen  between  two  rooms, 
or  near  the  threshold ;  and  it  is  higher  or  lower,  according  to 
the  sign  being  airy,  &c. 

If  a  thing  be  lost,  and  not  stolen,  consider  the  following 
points : — 

1 .  The  sign  ascending,  its  nature,  and  the  quarter  of  heaven 
it  denotes. 

2.  The  sign  the  lord  of  the  ascendant  is  in. 

3.  The  sign  of  the  4th  house. 

4.  The  sign  the  lord  of  the  4th  is  in. 

5.  The  sign  the  )  is  in. 

6.  The  sign  of  the  2d  house. 

7.  The  sign  the  lord  of  the  2d  is  in. 

8.  The  sign  0  is  in. 

Then  examine  the  greater  number  of  testimonies  to  discover 
what  quarter  of  heaven  the  thing  is  in,  as  regards  the  parts  of 


136  nmtoDFCTioir  to  astboloot. 

the  house.  Haying  found  the  bearing,  or  point  of  the  com- 
pass, observe  the  nature  of  the  sign,  viz.  airy  signs,  above 
ground ;  fiery y  near  a  wall,  or  partition ;  earthy ^  on  the  floor; 
watery,  near  a  moist  place  in  the  room,  &c. 

Bearing  by  Compass  of  the  Signs. 

r  East  SI  E.  by  North  f  E.  by  South 

dl  West  n  W.  by  South  tci  W.  by  North 

S  North  v\  N.  by  Bast  K  N.  by  West 

Yf  South  0  S.  by  East  trp  S.  by  West. 

Of  Buying  and  Selling  Lands,  Houses,  Farms,  ^c. 

The  ascendant,  its  lord,  and  the  ]) ,  are  for  the  buyer,  and 
the  7th,  its  lord,  and  planets  therein,  for  the  seller.  The  4th, 
its  lord,  and  planets  therein,  signify  the  land,  or  house,  &c. 
And  the  10th  house,  its  lord,  and  planets  therein,  signify  the 
price  ;  that  is,  whether  it  will  be  sold  cheap  or  dear. 

If  you  find  the  lords  of  the  Ist  and  7th  in  good  aspect^ 
and  the  lord  of  the  7th  apply  by  good  aspect  (or  if  by  evil 
aspect  with  reception)  to  the  lord  of  the  ascendant,  you  may 
judge  the  seller  has  good  will  to  the  buyer ;  and  if  they  are 
at  all  dignified,  the  purchase  will  be  effected;  but  if  the  aspect 
be  evil,  there  will  be  much  bargaining  and  dispute  before  all 
be  settled. 

If  the  lord  of  the  ascendant,  or  ]) ,  apply  to  the  lord  of  the 
4th,  or  this  planet  apply  to  them,  or  if  they  be  in  each  other's 
places,  viz.  the  lord  of  the  1st,  or  }) ,  in  the  4th,  or  the  lord 
of  the  4th  in  the  ascendant,  and  there  be  any  reception,  the 
purchase  will  be  effected. 

But  if  there  be  no  dwelling  in  houses  as  above,  yet  the  ]) 
transfer  the  light  of  the  lord  of  the  4th  to  the  lord  of  the  as- 
cendant, the  bargain  will  be  concluded,  though  by  brokers  or 
agents,  rather  than  by  the  principals. 


INTEODirCTIOSr  TO  ASTEOLOGT.  137- 

If  none  g£  the  above  rules  hold,  there  will  be  no  bargain 
made. 

Of  the  Quality  of  the  Land  or  Houses,  ^c. 

If  yon  find  the  infortunes  in  the  4th»  especially  if  they  be 
peregrine,  or  the  lord  of  the  4th  retrograde  or  afficted,  it  will 
never  continue  long  with  the  buyer's  posterity,  or  benefit  him. 

But  if  T^ ,  ?,  or  S3  >  be  in  the  4th,  or  the  lord  of  the  4th 
be  strong  and  well  aspected,  the  purchaser  may  expect  good 
success  with  the  property  ;  and  if  a  fixed  sign  be  in  the  4th, 
it  will  continue  in  the  family  of  the  purchaser. 

If  an  infortune  possess  the  ascendant,  the  tenants  or  occu- 
piers are  evil  and  deceitful,  and  will  give  trouble.  If  a  for- 
tune be  there,  or  g3  >  judge  the  reverse.  In  the  former  case, 
if  the  evil  planet  be  retrograde,  the  tenants  will  decamp  with- 
out paying  their  rent,  or  will  throw  up  their  leases. 

If  in  the  10th  house  there  be  a  fortune,  and  it  direct,  the 
timber  will  be  profitable,  or  the  house  will  let  well.  If  it  be 
retrograde,  there  are  many  trees,  but  they  not  profitable.  If 
there  be  an  infortune  direct,  there  are  few  trees,  or  the  house 
will  not  let  well ;  and  if  he  be  retrograde,  the  timber  will  be 
stolen,  or  the  rent  wiU  be  either  stolen  after  payment,  or  no 
payment  be  well  and  truly  made.  If  there  be  no  planet  in 
the  10th,  consider  the  lord  of  the  house,  and,  as  he  may  be 
strong  or  weak,  judge  the  result  of  the  profits,  whether  by 
timber,  &c.,  or  by  letting  the  house,  &c.  But  the  angle  of 
the  7th  must  be  considered  in  like  manner,  to  judge  the  quality 
of  the  grass,  corn,  or  herbage,  &c.  As  regards  the  description 
of  the  ground,  look  to  the  4th  house ;  and  if  you  find  a  fiery 
sign  on  its  cusp,  the  ground  is  in  general  hilly,  dry,  and  hard ; 
the  more  so,  if  the  lord  of  the  4th  be  in  a  fiery  sign,  viz.  r, 
Sli  t  •  ^^  there  be  an  earthy  sign  on  the  cusp,  the  ground 
is  plain,  level,  and  good  pasture  land,  or  for  tillage.     If  there 


138  INTBODUOTION  TO  ASTBOLOGT. 

be  an  airy  sign  thereon,  the  ground  is  of  a  mixed  nature,  part 
hilly  and  part  plain,  partly  good  and  partly  bad.  If  the  sign 
be  watery,  then  there  is  plenty  of  water,  a  brook,  or  rivulet, 
&c.,  thereon.  And  if  an  infortune  be  in  the  4th,  and  retro- 
grade or  peregrine,  the  land  will  partake  greatly  of  the  nature 
of  that  infortune ;  as  if  ii|_  be  the  sign,  and  Tj  in  it,  the  land 
is  marshy  or  boggy,  and  full  of  rushes ;  if  he  be  afflicted,  so 
much  worse  is  the  land.  And  if  the  land  lie  near  the  sea, 
you  may  fear  an  overflow,  or  that  the  banks  are  damaged,  &c. 
If  ^2  be  in  the  4th  in  a  fiery  sign,  the  land  is  barren,  and 
waiUts  water ;  if  he  be  afflicted,  it  is  utterly  stony  and  worth- 
less. If  »2  be  there  in  an  airy  sign,  the  land  is  defective ; 
and  if  he  be  afflicted,  especially  in  n,  the  management  of  it 
has  been  bad  and  unthrifty.  If  he  be  there  in  an  earthy  sign, 
the  land  is  tolerably  good,  but  heavy,  clay  land ;  and  if  he  be 
afflicted,  the  farmers  are  dull,  and  too  poor  to  manage  it  well. 
In  like  way  judge  of  the  standing  of  a  house  or  building : 
if  it  be  a  watery  sign,  there  will  be  much  damp  ;  and  if  ^ 
be  there  in  ii|^,  it  is  overrun  with  rats. 

0/  the  Cheapness  or  Deamess  of  the  Land  or  Houses,  ^c. 
This  is  known  by  the  lord  of  the  10th ;  for  if  he  be  angu- 
lar and  strong,  the  price  will  be  high,  and  the  seller  will  stand 
upon  his  terms ;  but  if  he  be  weak,  cadent,  afflicted,  &c.,  the 
price  will  not  rise  high. 

If  it  be  good  for  the  Querent  to  take  or  lease  the  House, 
Farm,  or  Land,  ^c. 

The  10th  house,  &c.,  will  herein  shew  the  profit  or  advan- 
tage to  be  made  by  the  undertaking,  having  regard  also  to 
the  usual  significators  of  property,  viz.  the  lord  of  the  2d,' 
and  ©,  &c. 


INTEODFCTION  TO  ASTEOLOGT.  139 

The  4tli  house  will  shew  the  end  of  the  matter  as  regards 
the  taking  the  property. 

If  there  be  a  fortune  ascending,  or  0  be  in  the  ascendant, 
or  the  lord  of  the  ascendant  be  there,  or  be  in  -)(•,  or  A  to  the 
degree  on  the  cusp  and  not  afflicted,  the  querent  will  take 
the  house  or  farm,  &c.,  and  find  it  a  good  bargain. 

If  an  infortune  ascend,  the  querent  will  not  take  the  pro- 
perty ;  or  if  he  have  already  taken  it,  he  has  no  mind  to  it, 
and  will  quickly  put  it  off  to  another  party. 

If  you  find  the  lord  of  the  7th  in  the  7th,  or  casting  a  good 
aspect  to  its  cusp,  or  there  be  benefics  therein,  the  man  will 
keep  his  word  in  the  bargain,  but  he  will  profit  by  it  more 
than  the  querent. 

If  an  infortune  be  in  the  7th  and  not  lord  of  the  7th,  have 
great  care  of  the  covenants  or  agreements  between  you ;  for 
the  landlord  will  be  too  hard  for  you,  as  he  minds  nothing 
but  his  own  ends  in  the  matter. 

Consider  the  10th  house ;  and  if  a  fortune  be  there  or  be- 
hold its  cusp  by  good  aspect,  the  parties,  notwithstanding 
some  rubs,  wiU  proceed  in  their  bargain,  and  the  land,  &c. 
will  be  let  to  the  querent. 

If  you  find  an  infortune  in  or  in  evil  aspect  to  the  10th, 
the  bargain  will  be  broken  off.  If  it  be  land,  they  differ 
about  the  timber,  &c.,  or  upon  the  erecting  of  some  new 
buildings ;  and  if  the  thing  be  a  house,  &c.,  they  differ  about 
the  repairs. 

As  to  the  end  of  the  matter,  see  to  the  4th  house.  If  for- 
tones  be  there,  or  the  lord  of  the  4th  behold  the  cusp  favour- 
ably, it  will  end  well,  and  both  parties  will  be  pleased ;  but  if 
an  infortune  be  there,  or  the  lord  of  the  house  aspect  it  by  Q 
or  ^,  the  whole  matter  will  end  ill,  and  will  please  neither 
party. 


140  nrrEODUonair  to  ASTBOLoer. 


QiTEET. — Shall  the  Querent  enjoy  the  Estate  of  his  leather  ? 

If  in  this  question  you  find  the  lords  of  the  2d  and  5tii  in 
reception  and  in  each  other's  houses^  there  is  no  douht  that 
the  querent  shall  have  a  competent  fortune  out  of  his  father's 
estate.  But  if  the  lord  of  the  father's  property  he  retrograde 
or  afflicted,  then  some  part  of  the  estate  intended  for  the 
querent  wiU  be  wasted  or  otherwise  disposed  of.  If  you 
would  know  why  or  how,  see  what  planet  impedites  the  lord 
of  the  5th,  and  what  house  he  is  lord  of.  If  it  be  the  lord  of 
the  6th,  it  may  be  one  of  the  father's  brothers,  or  sisters,  or 
neighbours  shall  prevail  on  the  father  to  alter  his  intentions 
towards  the  querent.  If  it  be  the  lord  of  the  7th,  it  may  be 
some  female,  or  his  wife,  or  some  person  with  whom  the 
querent  has  quarrelled,  that  will  cause  his  father  to  alter  his 
mind.  If  it  be  the  lord  of  the  12th,  it  is  some  one  of  the 
mother's  kindred,  or  it  may  be  (especially  if  }/),  some  minis- 
ter or  clergyman.  Now,  if,  upon  describing  the  party,  the 
querent  is  well  informed  of  who  it  is,  and  is  desirous  to  gain 
the  person's  good  wiU,  and  so  to  diminish  their  malice,  let 
him  do  as  follows :  on  the  approach  of  any  -)(-,  A*  or  ^ 
between  the  planet  signifying  that  party  and  the  lord  of  the 
ascendant,  let  the  day  be  observed  in  the  Ephemeris  when  the 
})  separates  from  one  and  applies  to  the  other,  (by  good  aspect 
if  possible),  and  on  that  day  endeavour  a  reconcilement :  and 
it  is  not  to  be  doubted  that  he  may  obtain  his  desire,  as  I 
have  found  many  times  by  good  experience.* 

If  the  lord  of  the  5th  dispose  of  the  0,  and  be  in  the 
ascendant  or  2d,  the  querent  shall  gain  his  desires.     %  or 

*  This  method  of  electing  times  for  application  to  individuals  for  any 
faYOur,  or  to  gain  any  point,  may  be  safely  practised  after  any  other  horary 
question,  as  well  as  this  particular  one. — Zad. 


rNTEODUCTION  TO  JlSTBOLOOT.  141 

$  in  the  5th,  casting  a  -)(-  or  A  to  any  planet  in  the  2d, 
argues  the  same. 

If  })  separate  from  the  lord  of  the  5th,  and  go  immediately 
to  -^  or  A  of  the  lord  of  the  2d  or  of  the  ascendant,  it  shews 
assured  hopes  of  acquiring  the  property  of  the  father. 

If  you  find  an  infortune  ill  dignified  in  the  4th,  die  father 
has  no  inclination  to  part  widi  his  money  ;  nor  will  it  he  well 
to  moTC  him  much  thereto,  until  that  unfortunate  planet  he 
transited  out  of  the  sign.  But  if  you  cannot  stay  so  long, 
observe  when  that  planet  is  direct,  swift  in  motion,  oriental, 
in  -)(-  or  A  with  7^  or  $  or  the  lord  of  the  ascendant,  and 
then  let  the  father  be  moved  in  the  business,  llie  observing 
those  influences  will  not  compel  the  father's  mind,  but  will 
caase  more  benevolent  intentions. 

If  the  lords  of  the  2d  and  5th  apply  to  any  good  aspect  by 
retrogradation,  the  querent  will  receive  some  property  from 
his  father  suddenly,  before  he  thinks  of  it.  If  there  be  any 
good  aspect,  reception,  &c.,  between  the  lord  of  die  4th  and 
any  other  planet,  stronger  than  there  is  between  the  lord  of 
the  4th  and  die  lord  of  the  ascendant,  the  father  regards  the 
party  signified  by  that  other  planet  better  than  the  querent : 
if  it  be  the  lord  of  the  3d,  or  any  planet  in  the  3d,  then  it  is 
one  of  die  querent's  brothers,  &c. 

Of  removing  Jrom  one  Home  or  Place  to  another. 

Observe  the  ascendant,  the  4th  and  7th  houses,  and  their 
lords,  planets  therein,  &c. 

If  the  lord  of  the  4th  be  in  the  7th,  and  he  a  good  planet, 
and  die  lords  of  the  Ist  and  7th  be  good  also  and  strong,  it 
is  then  better  to  remain  where  you  are.  But  if  die  lord  of 
the  7di  be  with  a  good  planet,  and  the  lord  of  the  4th  with 
an  evil  one,  it  is  then  not  well  to  remain.  If  the  ])  or  lord  of 
the  ascendant  separate  from  iU  aspects  of  the  infortunes,  and 


142  UTTBODirCTIOK  TO  ASTBOLOGT. 

they  lords  of  the  4th  or  7th,  or  from  the  lords  of  the  6th, 
8th,  or  1 2th ;  or  if  an  evil  planet  be  in  the  ascendant  or  4th ; 
or  if  the  lord  of  the  2d  be  weak,  I  advise  the  querent  to  re- 
move. And  if  the  lord  of  the  6th  be  in  the  ascendant,  or 
afflict  its  lord  or  the  }) ,  I  have  found  that  the  querent  has  iU 
healdi  where  he  is,  or  is  troubled  by  evil  servants.  If  the 
lord  of  the  12th  be  the  afflicting  planet,  he  has  backbiting, 
treacherous  neighbours.  And  if  the  0  was  in  the  6th,  8th, 
or  12th,  or  the  lord  of  the  2d  was  in  ill  aspect  to  the  lord  of 
the  ascendant,  I  have  found  that  he  went  back  in  the  world, 
&c.  If  the  lord  of  the  1  Odi  afflict,  I  judged  that  he  was  un- 
fortunate in  trade,  or  had  lost  his  credit.  If  the  lord  of  the 
4th  afflict,  he  has  been  injured  by  repairing  the  house,  &c. 
•Hie  lord  of  the  7th  shews  injury  by  an  opposite  neighbour, 
who  undersells  him,  &c. 

In  giving  advice  which  way  to  steer  his  course  in  hopes  of 
better  success,  I  observe  what  planet  in  the  scheme  is  strongest, 
and  has  the  best  aspect  to  the  lords  of  the  ascendant  or  2d  ; 
and  according  to  the  quarter  of  heaven  the  sign  that  planet  is 
in  signifies,  I  advise  the  querent  to  remove.  I  do  not  re- 
member that  any  ever  repented  the  following  my  advice, 
though  many  have  afterwards  returned  me  both  thanks  and 
rewards.* 

If  ])  separate  from  a  fortunate  planet,  stay ;  if  she  sepa- 
rate from  an  infortune,  remove.  An  infortune  in  the  ascend- 
ant, or  a  fortune  in  the  7th,  remove ;  but  a  fortune  in  the 
ascendant,  or  infortune  in  the  7th,  remain. 

Of  Treasure^  Mines,  ^c,  concealed  in  the  Ground, 

To  discover  mines  or  any  odier  thing  supposed  to  be  con- 
cealed in  any  place,  the  querent  must  observe  whether  there 

*  Let  the  querent  also  attend  to  the  places  ruled  by  the  sign  in  which 
the  planet  is ;  as  London  for  n ,  Dublin  for  0 ,  &c. 


INTEODUCTTOlSr  TO  ASTBOLOGY.  143 

be  any  planet  strongly  dignified  in  the  4tli  house ;  and  the 
natare  of  the  treasure,  mine,  &c.  may  be  judged  of  by  that 
planet,  if  he  have  any  affinity  with  the  7th  house.  The  nature 
of  the  mine,  &c.  will  depend  on  the  nature  of  the  planet.  If 
^  be  lord  of  the  7th  and  in  the  4th  dignified,  he  signifies 
good  coal  mines ;  or  if  the  question  were  of  stone,  then  there 
is  a  good  quarry.  And  so  judge  of  the  others  according  to 
their  nature  and  strength  in  essential  dignities. 

Example. 
If  I  should  purcliase  tlie  Houses  ofMaster  J5.  ? 

The  inheritance  of  the  house  wherein  at  this  present  1647 
I  Hve,  and  some  others,  being  proffered  me  to  buy  in  1634,  I 
had  a  desire  to  know  if  I  should  deal  with  the  seller,  and  pro- 
cure money  in  convenient  time  to  pay  for  the  purchase,  my 
own  money  being  in  such  hands  that  I  could  not  call  it  in 
under  six  months'  notice.  Being  desirous,  I  say,  to  purchase 
the  said  houses,  and  folly  resolved  upon  it,  I  took  my  own 
question  myself,  at  the  time  I  found  my  mind  most  per- 
plexed and  solicitous  about  it.  The  time  of  the  query  to 
myself  fell  out  according  to  the  position  of  heaven  following. 


144 


UTTBODXronOK  to  JlSTBOLOeT. 

Fig.  9. 


Resolution  of  the  above  Question, 

The  sign  ascending  is  ^y  and  the  degree  ascending  the 
place  of  %  in  my  radix :  I  looked  upon  that  as  a  good  omen 
in  the  first  place.  ?  is  for  myself,  ©  locally  placed  in  the 
7th  is  for  the  seller.  ©  receives  $  in  his  exaltation ;  and 
as  $  is  near  the  cusp  of  the  7th,  and  no  other  planet  there 
but  the  ©,  this  signified  that  there  was  no  other  purchaser 
about  it  at  present  but  myself.  The  ©  so  exalted  and  angular, 
denoted  that  the  seller  was  high  inh  is  demands,  (and so  he  was^) 
nor  was  he  necessitated  to  part  with  it.  Finding  my  signi- 
ficator  received  of  ©  and  so  near  the  cusp  of  the  7thy  was  aa 


USTTBODITCTIOir  TO  ASTBOLOOT.  145 

argninent  lliat  I  riionld  proceed  in  the  busmess,  notwithstand* 
ing  the  many  debilities  of  $  •  For  as  O  '^^^  lord  of  the  7th^ 
80  also  was  the  lord  of  the  11th  ;  signifying  that  my  hopes 
ihould  not  be  firustrated.  And  $  ako  was  applying  to  A  of 
^2 ,  lord  of  the  4th,  viz.  the  honset  inquired  after,  and  had  no 
frustration,  &c.,  before  the  perfect  a^eet ;  a  strong  argument 
that  I  should  buy  the  houses.  Both  significators  appHed  to 
the  aspect,  T^  being  retrograde,  I  ako  considered  that  0  was 
in  A  to  ^ ,  the  Q  being  lord  of  my  1 1th  and  f}  of  the  4th ; 
and  as  f^  beholds  the  ascendant  and  has  dignities  therein,  he, 
therefore,  had  signification  of  myself.  Now,  whether  you 
consider  him  as  having  dignities  in  the  ascendant  or  as  lord  of 
the  4th,  the  lord  of  the  11th  and  he  applying  by  a  A>  argued 
assuredly  that  I  should  proceed  and  in  the  end  conclude  for 
the  houses.  The  ])  in  the  next  place  translating  the  influ- 
eaot  of  ^,  lord  of  the  7th,  to  ^ ,  having  virtue  in  the  as- 
cendant, though  by  a  D  out  of  signs  of  long  ascension, 
did  much  facilitate  the  matter ;  but  argued  my  contracting 
leisurely  and  slowly,  because  of  the  Q  aspect.  And  as  ])  is 
afflicted  and  $  unfortunate,  so  I  had  much  trouble  and  many 
meetings  about  it ;  the  seller  not  abating  one  penny  of  ^530, 
being  the  first  money  he  demanded.  As  O  is  near  to  a  -X-  of 
11,  90  did  a  jovial  mvtn  endeavour  to  procure  the  purchase 
(after  I  began),  but  11  is  cadent  and  in  detriment,  which 
shewed  he  should  not  prevail.  $  angular  and  in  aspect 
with  >2,  and  0  lord  of  the  11th  (or  5th  from  the  7th), 
shewed  that  a  daughter  of  the  seller  was  my  very  good  friend 
in  this  business,  and  suffered  no  interloper  to  intervene, 
though  some  offered  fair  to  hinder  me.  As  <^,  lord  of  my 
2d«  was  retrograde,  it  denoted  that  I  should  get  none  of  my 
own  money  to  supply  my  occasions.  1^,  lord  of  @  in 
•X"  to  0,  no  ways  impedited,  but  by  being  in  detriment,  in 
platic  •)(-  with  the  lady  of  the  ascendant,  gave  me  such  hopes, 

L 


146  nrrBOBFonoK  to  abtbologt. 

that  I  doubted  not  of  prociiring  monej  when  he  entered  s, 
his  exaltation^  and  ^  became  direct;  which  he  did  twelye 
days  after,  when  a  Mend  lent  me  ^500. 

The  qualities  of  the  houses  are  shown  by  yf,  the  sign  on 
the  4th,  and  by  T^ ,  lord  diereof,  who  haying  no  material  de- 
bilities (except  being  retrograde  and  cadent),  and  being  also 
in  A  to  O,  the  houses  were  really  old,  but  strong  and  able 
to  stand  many  years.  When  $  and  Q  came  to  c^  in  O 
(25th  April),  I  bargained;  and  on  the  ])  to  c^  $  (May 
17th),  I  paid  in  ^530,  and  my  conveyance  was  sealed.  As 
¥  wanted  6  degrees  of  being  d  with  Q,  so  was  it  six  weeks 
and  some  days  from  the  time  of  the  question  until  I  perfected 
what  the  figure  promised. 

As  to  the  moles  and  scars  on  my  lK>dy,  it  exactly  agrees ; 
for  as  $  is  in  T>  which  represents  the  face,  so  hare  I  a  mole 
on  my  cheek,  about  the  middle  of  it ;  and  as  ^  ascends,  I 
hare  one  on  the  reins  of  my  back.  The  ])  in  trp,  afflicted  by 
(^,  I  have  a  red  mole  below  the  navel.  11,  lord  of  the  6th 
in  n,  a  masculine  sign,  I  hare  a  mole  near  my  right  hand, 
visible  on  the  outside ;  so  have  I  one  on  the  left  foot,  as  x  > 
the  sign  on  the  6th  signifies. 

I  had  a  hard  bargain,  as  the  figure  every  way  considered 
manifests ;  and  shall  never  live  to  see  many  of  the  leases  yet 
in  being  expire.  And  as  $  is  in  T>  the  sign  opposite  her 
own  house,  so  did  I  do  myself  injury  by  the  bargain ;  I  mean 
in  matter  of  money ;  but  the  love  I  bore  to  the  house  I  now 
Uve  in«  wherein  I  Uved  happily  with  a  good  master  fall  seven 
years,  and  therein  obtained  my  first  wife,  and  was  bountifully 
blessed  with  die  goods  of  this  world,  made  me  neglect  a  small 
hinderance ;  nor  now,  I  thank  God,  do  I  repent  it,  finding 
God's  blessing  in  a  plentiful  measure  upon  my  labours. 


IKTBODITOnOK  TO  ASTBOLOGT.  147 

CHAPTER    XXVIII. 

01*  THE  FXFTH  HOTJSB  AND  ITS  QXTESTIONS. 

If  one  shall  have  Children,  yea  or  nay  f 

HiBEiK  generally  consider  whether  the  signs  ascending  and 
on  the  5th  house  he  fruitful  ;*  whether  the  lord  of  the  as- 
cendant»  or  the  ])  be  in  aspect  with  the  lord  of  the  5th,  and 
if  80,  whether  the  lord  of  the  5th  be  strong,  and  also  the 
planet  or  planets  in  the  5th  or  in  aspect  with  its  lord.  These 
are  signs  the  querent  shall  have  children  before  they  die.  Also 
if  the  lord  of  the  5th  be  in  the  ascendant,  or  the  lord  of  the 
ascendant  be  in  the  5th,  it  is  a  strong  aj^ment  of  children. 
If  there  be  translation  of  light  or  collection  between  the  sig- 
nificators,  you  may  still  judge  that  there  wiU  be  children,  but 
not  so  speedily  as  if  it  had  been  foreseen  by  the  former  man- 
ner of  judgment. 

If  a  Woman  ask,  whether  she  may  have  a  Child? 

If  a  married  woman  ask,  consider  whether  the  lord  of  the 
ascendant  be  in  the  5th  or  7th,  or  the  lord  of  the  5th  be  in 
the  ascendant  or  7th,  or  lord  of  the  7th  in  the  5th,  or  the  ]) 
with  him,  or  good  planets  in  the  ascendant,  or  with  the  lord 
of  the  5th  or  in  the  angles  ;  she  may  then  conceive.  But  if 
none  of  these  testimonies  concur,  and  you  find  barren  signs 
and  planets  in  the  aforesaid  situations,  (especially  if  infor- 
tones  be  angular  and  fortunes  cadent),  she  neither  has  con- 
ceiyed  at  present  nor  will  hereafter.  If  good  and  evil  planets 
be  mixed,  she  may  have  children,  but  they  will  not  live.  If 
n,  Q,  or  trjj,  be  on  the  ascendant  or  5th,  and  ^J,  'j ,  <J,  or 
O  in  the  5th,  it  is  a  strong  sign  of  barrenness.  But  Q  rather 
causes  the  death  of  children  than  prevents  their  birth. 

*  FniHfol  ligns  are  the  watery  triplidty  SB,  tii)  and  x . 

L  2 


14d  DrrfiODircnov  to  astboloot. 

Whether  a  Man  shall  have  Children  hy  his  Wife,  or  his  in" 
tended  Wife  ?  Or,  whether  a  Womem  may  by  her  Hus» 
bandy  ^c. 

Observe  the  ascendant,  its  lord,  and  the  ]);  and  if  the 
lord  of  the  luscendant  or  })  be  joined  to  the  lord  of  the  5th, 
they  shall  have  issue  by  the  party  inquired  of.  If  this  be 
not,  observe  whether  translation  or  collection  of  light  occur 
between  the  significators,  or  whether  ])  or  lord  of  the  ascend- 
ant be  in  the  5th,  or  the  lord  of  the  5th  in  the  ascendant. 
These  are  all  testimonies  in  the  affirmative.  If  )/  or  $  be  in 
the  5th  no  way  afilicted,  a  child  will  be  very  speedily  bom ; 
and  if  they,  or  either  of  them,  be  in  the  ascendant  or  11th, 
there  will  be  children,  but  not  so  speedily.  But  if  the  for* 
tunes  be  afilicted  while  in  those  places,  there  is  danger  of  the 
child  being  bom  dead,  or  dying  shortly  after  birth.  If  there 
be  signs  of  children,  yet  $  be  afiBiicted  by  T^  or  (^,  there  is 
danger  of  some  accident,  &c.  to  the  mother  before  the  birth. 

If  Tj ,  or  (f ,  or  8,  (and  BjL,  if  afflicted),  be  in  the  5th,  or 
the  two  former  cast  their  ^  to  its  cusp,  the  woman  ia  not 
with  child,  nor  will  be.  The  D  of  the  infortunes  to  the  cusp 
of  the  5th  denotes  no  conception,  unless  they  be  strong  and 
there  be  other  good  testimonies.  The  lord  of  the  5th,  weak, 
&c.,  denotes  a  sickly  child. 

Whether  a  Woman  be  with  Child  or  not?  \fshe  ask  the 
Question. 

She  is  so,  if  the  lord  of  the  ascendant,  or  > ,  behold  the 
lord  of  the  5th  by  any  aspect,  or  translation  of  light  haTe 
passed  between  them.  If  the  lord  of  the  ascendant,  or  ) 
be  in  the  5th,  free  from  affliction  by  the  infortunes,  or  lords 
of  the  6  th,  8th,  or  12th,  or  S  /  If  )/  be  in  the  1st,  5th,  7th 
or  1 1th,  not  in  aspect  to  ^ ,  or  (^,  and  they  slow  in  motion. 


IKTBODTrOTIOK  TO  ASTBOLOGT.  149 

or  retrograde.  If  the  lord  of  the  aflcendaiit,  or  5ih  be  in 
good  aspect  to  a  planet  in  an  angle^  "with  mntoal  reception. 
If  the  ])  be  in  reception  with  any  planet  in  an  angle,  and  be 
essentially  fortified.  If  the  lord  of  die  ascendant  behold  its 
cusp  by  good  aspect,  out  of  a  good  house ;  or  if  })  be  in  the 
7th,  and  behold  the  lord  of  the  7th  in  the  1 1th ;  or  if  J  be  in 
the  1 1th,  and  behold  the  lord  of  the  7th  in  the  7th.  If  the 
lord  of  the  ascendant  be  in  mutual  reception  by  house,  tripli- 
city,  exaltation,  or  term,  with  a  planet  who  has  the  same 
reception  exactly ;  that  is,  if  each  be  in  the  other's  boose, 
&c.  If  the  J  apply  to  the  lord  of  the  ascendant,  or  lord  of 
the  5th,  by  good  aspect  from  the  lOth  house,  or  by  evil  aspect 
if  with  mutual  reception.  If  the  sign  ascending  be  fixed, 
and  a  fortune  dierein,  or  if  the  lord  of  the  5th  be  strong  in 
the  ascendant,  or  10th,  you  may  ever  predict  true  concep- 
tion. 

I^he  is  not  so,  if  you  find  none  of  the  above  testimonies,  or 
barren  signs  on  the  5th,  or  ascendant ;  or  evil  planets  there, 
or  afflicting  their  lords  and  the  J) . 

If  the  Man  ask  the  Question,  unknown  to  the  Woman. 

She  is  with  child,  if  the  lord  of  the  5th  behold  a  planet  in 
an  angle,  with  reception ;  or  if  the  lords  of  the  ascendant,  or 
5th,  or  7th,  or  11,  ?,  ©,  J,  5>  or  8,  be  in  the  5th,  and 
be  fortunate. — N.B.  $  if  in  aspect  to  a  malefic,  and  not  in 
any  aspect  to  a  benefic,  cannot  be  relied  upon. 

She  is  not  with  child,  if  1/  or  $  be  afflicted.  If  $  be 
joined  to  ^  or  (J ,  (or  to  l^,  if  he  be  ill  aspected),  and  they  be 
combust,  retrograde,  or  in  i^,  tip,  or  Yf.  If  ^  or  (f  be  in 
the  5th,  in  D>  or  ^,  to  its  lord,  they  denote  no  conception  ; 
but  if  other  testimonies  be  more  powerful,  and  denote  con- 
ception, they  shew  danger  of  abortion. 

The  lord  of  the  ascendant  joined  to  a  retrograde  planet,  or 


150  nrTEOBXTCTioir  to  astbologt. 

to  one  in  a  cadent  house,  or  received  bya  retrograde  or  com- 
bust planet,  or  if  no  aspect  or  translation  of  light  be  between 
the  lords  of  the  Ist  and  5th,  are  all  signs  of  no  conception  ; 
but  judge  by  the  majority  of  testimonies. 

Is  the  Child  Male  or  Female  ? 

The  lords  of  the  ascendant,  the  5th,  and  the  ]) ,  and  the 
signs  on  the  ascendant  and  5th  being  masculine,  denote  a 
male ;  if  they  be,  on  the  contrary,  feminine,  the  child  will  be 
a  female. — N.B.  Unless  this  be  a  part  of  the  question,  do  not 
attempt  to  give  a  judgment ;  nor  then  either,  unless  there  be 
a  great  majority  of  testimonies  on  one  or  the  other  side.  The 
sign  the  dispositor  of  the  ])  is  in  may  also  be  considered. 

Whether  the  Child  shall  live  or  die  ? 

The  lord  of  the  5th  retrograde,  combust,  or  cadent,  or 
being  in  his  fall  or  detriment,  and  afflicted  by  the  lord  of  the 
8th  of  the  figure,  or  the  8th  from  the  5th,  (which  is  the  12th), 
are  signs  of  death.  Or  if  the  lord  of  the  5th,  being  weak,  be 
afflicted  by  an  eviT  planet  in  the  8th  or  1 2th,  unless  some 
opposite  testimonies  occur,  it  may  be  expected  the  child  will 
speedily  die.  If  the  lord*of  the  ascendant  be  in  the  5th,  and 
be  afflicted  as  above,  or  if  ^,  ^ ,  (^,  or  8,  be  in  the  5th» 
especially  if  retrograde,  they  denote  the  same. 

Whether  there  shall  he  twins  ? 

If  suspicion  be  of  twins,  and  you  find,  upon  that  question, 
the  ascending  sign  be  double-bodied,  and  a  fortune  therein, 
or  the  same  of  the  5th  house,  and  O  Ai^d  }  be  in  double- 
bodied  signs,  and  the  lords  of  the  ascendant  and  5th  be  the 
same,  you  may  judge  twins.  But  unless  all,  or  nearly  all, 
these  testimonies  concur,  it  is  not  safe  so  to  judge. — ^N.B. 
The  dispositor  of  the  ]),  that  is  the  planet  in  whose  house 


UrTBODXTCnOK  TO  ASTBOLOeX.  151 

die  is,  may  also  be  considered.  Moreover,  if  the  Q  be  with 
either  If.,  $ ,  or  the  J ,  or  that  all  these  be  in  either  n,  trp, 
f,  or  ^,  it  is  a  fiurther  testimony  of  the  woman  bearing 
twins. 

How  long  the  Woman  ha$  been  pregnant  ? 

Observe  the  lord  of  the  ascendant,  the  5th,  or  the  D ;  see 
which  is  nearest  from  any  aspect  which  is  past,  and  then 
judge  according  to  the  nature  of  the  aspect.  If  the  separa* 
tion  be  from  a  A»  say  she  is  in  the  5  th  month  of  her  con- 
ception, or  the  3d ;  if  it  be  a  •)(-,  she  is  in  the  2d  or  6th 
month ;  if  a  D,  she  is  in  the  4th  month ;  an  ^,  gives  the 
7th  month ;  and  if  it  be  a  c^ ,  then  she  has  been  pregnant 
only  one  month. 

Of  the  Time  when  the  Birth  shall  take  place  ? 

Observe  when  (J  or  0  are  in  cJ  with  the  lord  of  the  5th, 
or  there  be  a  (5  of  the  lord  of  the  5th  with  the  lord  of  the 
•  ascendant  in  the  5tii  house ;  about  that  time  the  birth  may 
be  expected.  Observe,  ako,  when  the  lord  of  the  ascendant 
goes  out  of  one  sign  into  another ;  that  is  also  a  probable 
period  for  the  birth.  See,  also,  how  far  the  lord  of  the  5th 
is  from  the  cusp  of  the  5th,  and  give  to  every  sign  one  month. 
Judge  according  to  the  majority  of  these  testimonies.* 

Ov  Ambassjldobs  OB  Messekoebs. 

The  lord  of  the  5th  and  the  ])  ipay  be  considered  to  re- 
present the  ambassador  or  messenger.    The  planet  to  whom 

^  This  it  nther  a  difficult  point  to  decide;  andnnlese  the  querent 
have  great  anxiety  on  ^e  subject,  which  in  tome  cases  may  happen,  we 
advise  the  student  to  ayoid  g;iying  judgment,  or  at  least  till  he  has  well 
satisfied  himself,  by  experience,  of  the  right  method.  We  believe  it  will 
generally  be  found,  that  at  the  time  of  the  birth  the  0  is  passing  some 
aspect  of  the  cnsp  of  the  5th,  or  its  lord. 


152  ii!rrBOi>ircTiOK  to  ijitbologt. 

either  of  them  apply  shall  shew  the  cause  and  nature  <tf  the 
message. 

If  you  find  the  application  be  from  a  fortune  by  n,  ^, 
or  (j,  and  there  be  reception  between  them,  or  collection  or 
translation,  and  that  planet  be  in  the  10th,  or  lord  thereof, 
the  embassy  is  on  some  high  and  important  matter  of  a 
political  nature.  If  the  planet  who  is  receiyed,  or  translates, 
or  collects,  be  lord  of  the  Uth,  he  comes  to  renew  leagues 
of  Mendship.  If  the  lord  of  the  5th  be  afflicted  or  weak  in 
the  7th,  and  the  lord  of  the  ascendant  and  he  be  in  evil 
aspect,  and  ^  aspect  either  of  them  evilly,  there  is  no  sign 
of  any  peace  or  permanent  benefit  arising  from  this  embassy 
or  message.  According  as  the  lord  of  the  5th  and  ])  be  well 
affected  to  the  ascendant,  its  lord,  and  planets  therein,  you 
may  predict  advantage  to  the  querent  or  his  nation,  according 
as  it  be  respecting  a  public  or  private  matter. 

Of  a  Menage  sent  for  Money. 

The  message  is  shewn  by  the  ]) ,  the  messenger  by  the  lord* 
of  the  5th :  the  other  significators  as  usual. 

If  the  lord  of  the  5th  separate  from  the  lord  of  the  7th, 
and  apply  to  the  lord  of  the  ascendant,  you  may  judge  the 
messenger  has  effi^ted  the  thing  he  went  for,  and  is  returning 
home.  If  the  lord  of  the  5th  separate  from  the  lord  of  the 
2d,  he  brings  money.  The  answer  the  messenger  brings  is  of 
the  nature  of  that  house  from  whose  lord  the  lord  of  the 
5th  separates,  and  also  of  the  nature  of  the  planet  himself. 
Therefore,  if  he  separate  from  a  good  planet,  it  gives  hopes 
of  a  good  answer ;  the  contrary,  when  he  separates  from  evil 
planets.  If  the  lord  of  the  5th  apply  by  Q,  or  ^f ,  to  an 
infortune,  before  he  is  separated  from  the  lord  of  the  7th,  the 
messenger  has  had  some  impediment  in  effecting  his  business 
by  the  party  to  whom  he  was  sent,  and  has  also  sustained 


nrrBODUcnoN  to  astrology.  153 

some  hinderance  on  his  journey  before  he  arriyed  at  the  place. 
Bat  if  this  application  to  an  infortune  happen  after  the  lord 
of  the  5th  was  separated  from  the  lord  of  the  7th,  the  mes- 
sengerwill  have  delays  and  misfortunes  on  his  return.  If 
yon  find  an  infortune  (especially  (^  )  in  the  9th,  he  will  hardly 
travel  safe  for  thieves ;  but  if  a  fortune  be  there,  his  going 
and  returning  will  be  safe. 

If  there  be  reception,  (though  they  apply  by  D  or  ^f  )  be- 
tween the  lords  of  the  5th  and  7th,  the  messenger  wiU  be 
well  received ;  but  the  evil  aspect  shews  some  delay  or  excuse 
framed  by  the  party  to  whom  the  messenger  is  sent. 

As  to  the  messenger's  return ;  when  the  lord  of  the  5th 
comes  to  a  •}(•  or  A  of  the  lord  of  the  ascendant,  that  day, 
or  near  it,  the  messenger  is  heard  of;  or  when  })  separates 
from  the  lord  of  the  5th,  and  applies  to  the  lord  of  the  as- 
cendant, the  querent  shall  have  intelligence  of  his  messenger. 
The  application  of  the  ngnificator  to  a  ponderous  phmet 
thews  more  certainly  the  day.  Use  discretion  in  judgbg  the 
nature  of  the  journey,  its  length,  &c.  And,  according  to  the 
nature  of  the  signs  and  houses  in  which  the  applying  planet 
may  be  found,  expect  the  return  to  be  in  days,  weeks, 
months,  &c. 


154 


IKTBODUOTIOK  TO  ASTBOLOGT. 


Fig.  10. 


S^^ 


QuiBBY. — If  the  Person  asking  the  Question  should  ever  have 
Children  ? 


Judgment  upon  the  preceding  Figure, 

The  ascendant  is  here  tvp,  a  barren  sign ;  the  sign  ot  the 
5th  is  Vf ,  an  indifferent  sign  in  this  question^  but  rather 
barren,  as  being  the  house  of  ^  .  The  lord  of  the  Sth,  ^  , 
is  retrograde  in  $  ;  and  the  lord  of  the  ascendant,  $ ,  is  in 
n,  both  signs  more  barren  than  fruitful.    The  ])  is  in  the 


INTBODUCTION  TO  ASTBOLOeY«  155 

terms  of  ^J ,  and  in  Q  to  Ij ,  lord  of  the  5th.  § ,  lord  of 
the  ascendant,  is  in  the  terms  of  T?  >  <Lnd  afiOlicted  hy  ^^  and 
going  to  ^  of  Viy  who  is  lord  of  the  6th  as  well  as  5th ; 
8  also  in  the  ascendant.  All  these  are  strong  arguments  of 
barrenness  ;  and  I  therefore  delivered  the  following  judgment, 
viz.,  that  the  querent  neither  had  been,  nor  ever  would  be, 
pregnant,  being  naturally  barren  ;  for  finding  the  chief  angles 
afflicted  by  malefics,  it  was  certain  that  the  evil  which  pre- 
vented her  from  conceiving  had  been  long  upon  her,  and 
▼ould  continue.  I  found  no  one  promising  testimony ;  so  I 
declared,  positively,  that  she  never  would  have  any  children, 
according  to  the  rules  of  the  science. 

The  ])  being  in  D  to  Tj ,  and  J ,  lord  of  the  1st,  apply- 
ing to  his  J^,  the  querent  was  very  sickly,  afflicted  with  wind 
and  cholic ;  8  in  the  ascendant,  shewed  great  pain  in  the 
head  ;  and  $  in  n>  shewed  the  same.* 

The  querent's  moles,  &c.  agreed  exactly  with  the  figure, 
Tiz.  one  mole  close  by  the  navel :  one  upon  the  right  ancle  ; 
one  towards  the  right  knee,  on  the  inner  side  of  the  thigh ; 
one  near  the  member  shewn  by  the  )  in  ti); ;  and  one  on 
the  outside  of  the  right  arm. 

*  See  the  Table  of  the  Parts  in  Man's  Body  the  planets  rule  in  each 
sign. 


156 


nffTBOBXTCTIOK  TO  ASTBOLOOT. 
Fig,  11. 


QuESTioK. — A  Female  being  unth  Child,  whether  it  were  a 
Male  or  Female ;  and  about  what  Time  she  should  be  de- 
liver  ed  ? 


Ist  Qtjeby. — J«  the  Child  a  Male  or  Female  ? 

In  this  case  I  followed  the  method  of  taking  only  the  plu- 
rality of  testimonies  of  the  proper  signifieatorM^  whether 
masculine  or  feminine,  and  so  gave  judgment. 


INTBODUCTIOir  TO  ASTBOLOOT.  167 

Arguments  of  a  Girl, 

fig  the  sign  ascending feminine. 

Vf  the  sign  on  the  5th  house do. 

))    in  a  sign do. 

$   lord  of  the  ascendant,  with  $  a  planet  . .      do. 

Jrgumente  of  a  Boy. 

$   lord  of  the  ascendant  in  a  sign masculine. 

Tj    lord  of  the  5th,  a  planet do. 

y^   lord  of  the  5th,  in  a  sign do, 

J    in  a  house do, 

Ij    in  a  house do. 

%  a  henefic  in  an  angle,  in  a  sign do. 

9   applying  to  aspect  of  (^,apknet    ,.         do. 
Here  are  seven  testimonies  of  a  hoy,  and  only  four  of  a 
girl ;  I  therefore  affirmed  that  the  kdy  carried  a  son  ;  (and 
so  it.  proved). 

2d  QuiBT. — How  long  ere  she  should  be  delivered  ? 
The  sign  of  the  5th  is  moveable ;  so  is  T9  wherein  both 
the  lords  of  the  1st  and  5th  are  situated.  These  argued  but 
a  short  time ;  but  as  f^  >  lo^<^  of  the  5th,  is  a  ponderous 
planet,  and  was  slow  in  motion,  I  considered  him  much  in 
thb  query ;  and  also  ]) ,  because  she  was  situated  in  the  5th. 
I  took  the  distance  between 

I?   in  r 24*  37' 

}   in  Yf 9    50 

Diffi^nce      14  47 
Also  between  h  and  ^  : 

T?  in  r 24*  37' 

5   in  r 11      0 

Difference         13  37 


158  IKTEODUOTIOM  TO  A8TB0L0QT. 

Fmding  only  one  degree  and  ten  minutes  between  the  as- 
pect  of  the  ])  and  T2 »  and  that  of  5  and  f^ ,  I  gave  for 
every  degre«t  one  veek,  and  so  judged  that,  about  fourteen 
▼eeks  from  th^  time  of  the  question,  she  should  be  deli- 
vered. 

The  birth  took  place  on  the  11th  July  following,  when 
(J  transited  the  degree  ascending,  and  J  the  <f  of  J ,  viz. 
S  9".  The  O  also  was  that  day  in  s  27*  48',  the  perfect 
D  to  his  own  place  in  the  figure,  and  J  in  cJ  with  5  "* 
ffi .  The  time  was  thirteen  weeks  and  four  days  after  the 
question. 


CHAPTER  XXIX. 

07  THE   SIXTH  HOUSE. 

Vie,  Sickness,  Servants,  Small  Cattle,  ^e. 

Ik  the  first  place,  we  ought  to  take  the  figure  for  the  exact 
moment  of  the  person  falling  sick,  or  rather  of  being  obliged 
to  take  to  his  bed.* 

Secondly,  if  that  cannot  be  had,  accept  of  that  time  when 
first  any  person  spoke  to  a  physician,  &c.  regarding  the  pa- 
tient. And  if  it  was  with  his  consent,  the  ascendant  will 
signify  him;  but  if  unknown  to  him,  the  ascendant  will 
denote  the  querent ;  and  the  house  describing  his  relation  to 
the  person  speaking  of  the  sickness  wiU  describe  the  patient. 
(This  is,  supposing  the  physician  to  be  an  astrologer,  which 
they  formerly  were ;  but  if  the  patient's  friend  speak  to  an 
astrologer,  the  same  rule  holds.) 

Thirdly,  or  let  the  physician  note  the  tune  of  his  own  first 

*  If  the  illness  be  produced  by  an  accident,  then  take  the  time  at 
which  it  occurred. 


UTTBODrCTION  TO  ASTBOLO0T.  159 

speaking  with  the  patient^'*'  and  let  a  figure  be  erected  for 
that  moment. 

Then  consider  carefully,  first,  the  ascendant  and  planets 
therein ;  secondly,  the  6th  house,  and  planets  therein ; 
thirdly,  the  sign  and  house  wherein  the  Moon  is ;  fourthly, 
how  she  is  affected  or  afflicted,  by  what  planet,  in  what 
house  that  planet  is,  and  of  what  house  he  is  lord. 

What  Part  of  the  Body  is  afflicted  ? 

If  the  ascendant  be  afflicted  by  an  evil  planet,  and  he  re- 
trograde, combust,  peregrine,  slow  in  motion,  or  in  D  or  ^ 
to  Uie  lord  of  the  4th,  6th,  8th,  or  12th,  the  disease  is  then  in 
the  heady  or  in  that  part  or  parts  of  the  body  which  the 
planet  or  planets  signify  in  the  sign  then  ascending. 

For  example ;  if  s  ascend,  and  V?  therein,  the  sick  party 
is  afflicted  in  the  head,  because  the  ascendant  signifies  the 
head ;  and  also  has  some  disorder  in  the  bowels,  reins,  or 
secrets,  because  V?  in  ^  signifies  those  parts ;  or  else  With 
some  rotten  cough,  as  T^  denotes  coughs,  and  s  rules  the 
breast.  If  the  lord  of  the  ascendant,  J ,  or  lord  of  the  6th, 
be  in  a.  sign  signifying  the  same  member  or  parts  as  V?  >  or  if 
the  sign  on  the  6th  represent  the  same,  your  judgment  will  be 
more  certain ;  I  may  say,  infallible.f 

I  also  would  observe,  in  like  manner,  the  6th  house,  its 

*  Our  author  adds,  **  or  when  first  the  urine  was  brought  to  him." 
This  makes  it  evident  that  the  water  doctors,  as  they  were  termed,  eren 
until  a  very  recent  period,  had  recourse  to  astrology  to  ascertain  the 
nature  and  result  of  their  patients'  diseases.  We  are  quite  sure,  from 
long  experience,  that  these  may  be  accurately  learned  by  the  science ; 
and  we  believe  that  many  medical  men  call  it  to  their  aid  even  now.  The 
day  is  coming  when  this  will  be  generally  the  case. 

t  In  all  cases  where  the  D  is  afflicted  by  either  T^  or  ^ ,  we  should 
regard  the  rules  for  that  situation  as  of  the  chief  importance ;  we  have 
never  known  them  faiL 


160  SSTTBODVOTIOir  TO  ASTXOIdOOT. 

sign,  lordx  and  planet  in  it  Also  observe  carefdlly  the  stga 
and  house  where  ])  is,  her  separation  and  appUeation.  And 
you  may  then  yenture  safely  to  give  judgment  as  to  what  part 
of  the  body  of  the  sick  person  is  grieved,  and  of  the  nature 
and  quality  of  the  sickness. 

The  Cause  and  Nature  of  the  Sickness, 

The  significators  in  Jiery  signs,  and  Jiery  signs  on  the  as- 
cendant and  6th,  shew  feverish  and  hot  complaints,  hectic 
fevers,  erysipelas,  &c. 

Earthy  signs  ai^ue  long  and  tedious  diseases,  agues,  inter- 
mittent fevers,  and  such  complaints  as  proceed  from  melan- 
choly, consumption,  &c. 

Airy  signs  shew  corrupt  blood,  gout,  cutaneous  diseases, 
scrofula,  &c. 

Watery  signs  shew  diseases  that  proceed  from  cold  and 
moisture,  coughs  and  disordered  stomach,  &c. 

Diseases  signijied  by  the  Houses, 

1st.  All  diseases  in  the  head,  eyes,  face,  ears,  nose,  mouth, 
foul  breath,  &c. 

2d.  The  throat,  scrofula,  quinsey,  glandular  swelHng»  in  the 
neck,  sore  throat,  &c. 

3d.    The  shoulders,  arms,  and  hands. 

4th.  The  stomach,  breast,  and  lungs. 

dth.  Back,  hind  parts  of  the  shoulders,  liver,  heart,  sides, 
and  stomach. 

6th.  Lower  part  of  the  abdomen,  the  intestines,  liver,  and 
reins. 

7th.  The  hams,  the  flank,  the  small  intestines,  bladder,  mat- 
rix and  members  of  generation. 

8th.  The  spine,  rectum,  and  groin. 

9th.  The  hips  aud  thighs. 


IKTBODUOTIOK   TO  A8TB0L00T.  161 

10th.  The  knees  and  upper  part  of  the  leg  behind  the 
knees. 

11th.  The  leg  from  the  knee  to  the  ancle^  the  shin-bone, 
shank^  &c. 

12th.  The  feet,  ancles  and  toes^  with  all  hurts  or  disease  in- 
cident to  them.* 

fFhether  the  Disease  will  be  long  or  short, 

Haye  regard  to  the  time  of  year^  and  consider  that  diseases 
commencing  in  the  winter  are  usually  longer,  and  those  in 
summer  shorter. 

Diseases  which  proceed  from  ^i  are  more  permanent,  and 
are  generally  regulated  much  by  the  motion  of  the  ©•  Those 
of  a  hot  and  dry  nature,  which  are  influenced  by  ^  and  0, 
are  short,  and  regulated  by  the  motion  of  }) .  ^  causes 
long  chronic  complaints,  falls,  bruises,  blows,  &c. ;  %  and  Q 
shorter ;  $  short,  violent,  and  quick,  such  as  cuts,  bleed- 
ings, &c.  $  a  mean  between  both,  and  such  as  proceed  from 
mtemperance ;  $  various  and  changeable,  such  as  fits,  &c. ; 
}  such  as  return  at  periods,  as  the  falling  sickness  or  epilepsy, 
giddiness,  swimming  in  the  head,  gout,  periodical  illness  in 
females,  &c.f 

Signs  of  a  short  Disease, 

When  the  cusp  of  the  6th,  the  ]) ,  and  the  lords  of  the  Ist 
and  6th,  be  in  moveable  signs,  or  the  lord  of  the  ascendant 
swift  in  motion,  or  going  out  of  his  own  house  into  another, 
so  that  it  be  not  the  sign  of  the  6th  or  12th,  or  if  a  fortune 
be  in  the  6th,  you  may  judge  that  the  disease  will  soon  ter- 
minate. 

*  For  the  diseases  signified  by  the  sigru,  see  Chapter  XV ;  and  for 
those  of  iAit  planets,  see  the  nature,  &c.  of  each,  at  page  35. 

t  ^  causes  all  uncomyion  and  extraordinary  complaints ;  or  gives  re- 
markable features  to  the  sickness. 

M 


1 62  rlTTBODtrCTIOK  TO  ASTBOLO  GT^ 

Sifffu  of  a  Umg  Disease, 

The  loi^d  <3i  the  6th  etil  or  i^cted,  and  placed  m  the  6th^ 
fixed  signs  on  its  cusp,  or  the  significators,  especially  the  ]) , 
ih  fixed  signs,  are  testiiiionies  of  a  long  and  durable  disease : 
and  if  Tj  be  lord  of  the  6th  and  in  a  fixed  sign,  or  retrograde 
and  slow  in  motion,  he  extremely  prolongs  the  disease ;  but  if 
he  be  in  a  moveable  sign,  or  in  any  of  his  own  terms,  or  be 
swift  in  motion,  he  is  not  then  so  unfortunate. 

General  S^rns. 

The  disease  continues  but  a  short  time  if  K  be  on  the  cusp 
of  the  6th.  If  the  J  apply  by  iU  aspect  to  the  lord  of  the 
ascendant,  the  disease  will  increase.  If  ])  be  in  the  6th  in 
ill  aspect  to  $ ,  ^  disease  is  brought  on  by  intemperance, 
either  evil  diet  or  surfeit;  and  if  $  be  in  il\,  there  is  evidence 
of  a  scandalous  disease.  But  if  the  patient  be  a  female,  it 
may  be  the  whites  or  other  diseases  of  the  matrix. 

The  last  degrees  of  any  sign  being  on  the  cusp  of  the  6thj) 
denotes  that  the  disease  is  almost  at  an  end.  If  the  lord  of 
the  6th  apply  by  iU  aspect  to  the  lord  of  the  ascendant,  it  is  a 
token  of  the  disease  increasing ;  the  same,  if  the  lord  of  the 
6th  be  in  the  8th  or  12th  house.  If  the  lord  of  the  ascendant 
be  in  the  6th,  and  the  lord  of  the  6th  in  the  ascendant,  the 
disease  has  been  of  long  continuance,  and  will  continue  until 
one  of  the  significators  leaves  the  sign  where  he  is.  And  if, 
at  the  time  of  transiting  out  of  the  sign,  he  meet  the  evil  as- 
pects of  the  infortunes  or  lords  of  the  4th  or  8th,  and  they 
slow  in  motion,  and  it  be  from  signs  evilly  aspecting  one 
another,  it  is  a  strong  sign  that  the  sick  person  will  then  de- 
part this  life.  The  lord  of  the  6th  afflicted  by  the  D  or  ^ 
of  the  lord  of  the  ascendant,  the  disease  is  grievous  and  hard 
to  cure.     If  the  lord  of  the  6th  be  in  the  ascendant,  tiie 


nrTBODFcnoH  to  ASTBOLoer.  163 

disease  will  continae»  but  the  pain  at  times  is  small.  If  he  be 
in  a  eadent  house,  the  disease  is  not  important,  nor  irill  it  en- 
dare.  Good  planets  in  the  6th  promise  a  good  end  to  the 
disease ;  evil,  the  contrary.  The  lord  of  the  6th,  afflicted  in 
the  6th,  8th,  or  12th,  or  an  infortune  in  the  6th,  denotes  a 
disease  not  easily  curable.  The  lord  of  the  ascendant  and  ]) 
free  from  ill  aspects,  both  being  unafflicted  and  strong,  and 
not  in  the  6th,  8th,  or  12th,  is  a  fair  testimony  of  recovery 
and  health.  The  lord  of  the  1st  in  the  4th  or  8th,  if  not 
afflicted,  denotes  not  death ;  but  if  unfortunate,  it  shews  great 
difficulty  ere  the  party  be  cured.  If,  however,  he  be  unfor- 
tanate  by  retrogradation,  being  combust,  &c.,  he  may  possibly 
be  cured,  but  will  afterwards  relapse.^  If  he  be  in  evil  aspect 
with  )) ,  there  is  danger ;  but,  above  all,  if  ^j  be  lord  of  the 
ascendant,  and  be  slow  or  retrograde,  there  is  reason  to  fear  a 
long  and  tedious  sickness.  If  ^  be  strong  and  well  qualified, 
the  reverse. 

When  the  lord  of  the  ascendant  is  angular,  strong,  and  un- 
afflicted, the  querent  is  in  no  danger.  The  }  slow  in  motion 
and  in  any  aspect  with  him,  it  prolongs  the  infirmity,  though 
there  be  at  present  hopes  of  a  cure.  If  she  be  swift  in  mo- 
tion when  aspecting  the  lord  of  the  ascendant,  the  cure  will 
be  effected  in  a  little  time.  The  ^  decreasing  in  Hght,  and 
coming  to  (j,  D,  or  ^f  of  T? ,  unless  the  disease  be  already 
leaving  the  patient,  is  very  dangerous.  The  ])  in  (5  with  an 
oriental  planet,  who  is  swift  in  motion  and  direct,  denotes  a 
brief  sickness ;  if  joined  to  a  retrograde  and  occidental  planet, 
the  contrary. 

If  rtl  ascend,  the  patient  has  been  the  cause  of  his  own 
sickness  by  folly,  anger,  peevishness,  or  the  like  ;  especially 
if  (^  be  therein.  Both  lights  eadent  and  their  dispositors 
unfortunate,  the  sickness  will  be  severe  ;  but  if  the  fortunes 
assist,  though  the  disease  will  be  of  long  continuance,  the 

M  2 


164  rsTsoDUOTio^  to  astbologt. 

party  will  recover  beyond  all-  expectation :  the  stronger  the 
fortunes  are,  the  more  confident  you  may  be  in  your  judgment. 
If  (^  be  lord  of  the  ascendant  and  in  the  6th,  but  in  good 
aspect  to  $,  there  is  no  danger;  if  even  in  D  or  ^,  not 
much. 

The  lord  of  the  6th  combust,  retrograde,  in  his  fall  or 
detriment,  and  in  the  8th,  in  (5,  D*  or  <f  of  Fj  or  ^,  you 
may  fear  that  the  disease  will  never  leave  the  patient  till  death. 
If  the  ])  also  be  applying  to  the  same  aspects  of  the  lord  of 
the  8th,  your  judgment  will  be  certain.  The  ])  or  lord  of 
the  Ist,  in  cJ,  D>  or  ^f  to  a  benevolent  planet,  but  he  retro- 
grade, the  patient  will  recover,  but  not  speedily,  for  it  denotes 
relapsing  out  of  one  disease  into  another.  T/^Tien  }  leaves 
<f  of  0,  and  is  swiftly  applying  to  the  D  or  <f  of  (J ,  it 
threatens  a  fatal  end  to  the  disease ;  but  if  she  receive  a  -)(•  or 
A  of  1/  or  ? ,  the  sick  shaU  recover.  If  the  })  be  in  the 
ascendant,  and  in  cJ,  n>  or  ^f  to  ^  or  ^,  or  any  other  evil 
planet,  it  is  a  token  of  severe  illness  and  danger,  unless  she 
be  in  mutual  reception  with  the  planet  afflicting. 

Testimonies  of  Recovery, 

The  })  applying  to  a  fortune,  powerful,  denotes  that  the 
party  will  be  restored  to  his  former  health.  If  reception  be 
between  the  lords  of  the  ascendant  and  8th  by  house  or  tri- 
plicity,  the  fortunes  assisting  the  degree  ascending,  or  that 
on  the  6th,  or  the  ])  by  (5,  -X",  or  A,  the  sick  will  perfectly 
recover.  The  lord  of  the  ascendant,  being  a  benefic  planet, 
or  any  fortune  in  an  angle  and  no  iU  aspects  cast  thereto,  sig- 
nifies health.  A  certain  sign  of  recovery  is,  when  ©,  T/,  ? , 
or  )  be  in  the  ascendant,  and  no  ways  afflicted  by  the  lord 
of  the  6  th  or  8th  house ;  the  more  so  if  in  the  houses  of  the 
lights  or  benefice.  The  ])  in  her  own  house,  or  the  houses 
of  7/  or  ? ,  and  in  any  aspect  to  those  bencfics,  and  no  way 


INTRODUCTION  TO  ASTE0L9GY.  165 

aflaicted  by  ^,  ^ ,  or  (J,  denotes  health  and  life.  Whenever 
D  d  1/  occurs,  it  denotes  recovery,  but  if  in  Yf ,  less  than 
in  any  other  sign.  If  })  apply  to  the  lord  of  the  ascendant 
by  good  aspect,  and  be  unafficted  (by  the  lord  of  the  8th  or 
6th  especially),  recovery  is  promised. 

When,  at  the  first  falling  sick  of  the  party,  J  is  void  of 
course,  and  at  her  next  crisis  meets  a  -Jf  or  A  of  1/  or  ?  in 
the  exact  degree  which  forms  the  perfect  critical  aspect,  the 
patient  will  undoubtedly  recover,  be  he  never  so  ill  at  time  of 
asking  the  question.  If  at  the  commencement  of  a  disease, 
0,  ]) ,  and  the  lord  of  the  ascendant,  are  free  from  ill  as- 
pects of  the  infortunes  or  lord  of  the  8th,  there  are  assured 
hopes  of  life. 

Arguments  of  Death. 

The  lord  of  the  ascendant  and  ])  in  c5  with  the  lord  of 
the  8th,  without  interposing  aspects  of  fortunes. 

The  lord  of  the  ascendant  cadent,  and  the  lord  of  the  8th 
in  an  angle,  especially  if  the  latter  be  an  infortune.  The  }) 
applying  to  a  planet  in  the  8th,  and  afflicted ;  and  the  lord 
of  the  ascendant  applying  to  the  lord  of  the  8th  or  to  evil 
planets  therein,  are  very  dangerous.  The  })  transferring  the 
light  of  the  lord  of  the  8th  to  the  lord  of  the  ascendant, 
usually  denotes  death.  So  when  the  lord  of  the  8th  is  in  the 
ascendant,  the  lord  of  the  ascendant  and  ])  both  being 
afflicted ;  or  the  lord  of  the  ascendant  being  in  the  8th  and 
afflicted,  and  ])  also  weak  and  in  no  dignity.  The  lord  of 
the  ascendant  under  the  Earth,  and  in  iU  aspect  to  the  lord  of 
the  8th  in  the  8th,  or  if  the  two  lords  be  in  d  in  the  4th 
house.  It  is  a  very  iU  sign  when  the  lord  of  the  ascendant 
is  in  d  with  the  lords  of  the  4th,  6th,  8th,  or  12th. 

The  lord  of  the  ascendant  combust  in  the  ascendant,  or  the 
lord  of  the  8th  in  the  10th,  and  the  lord  of  the  ascendant  in 
the  4th,  6th,  or  12th,  and  afflicted  by  malefics,  are  very  evil. 


166  IKTHODITCTION  TO  ASTEOLOGT. 

The  lord  of  the  8tl^  letrograde  and  conjoined  with  the  ^ ,  cur 
in  a  or  ^  to  her»  shews  death.  The  lord  of  the  accendf^t 
in  ^  or  r;::^,  and  evilly  affected  by  the  lords  of  the  6th  or 
1 2th^  shews  little  hopes  of  recovery ;  and  his  being  popjoined 
with  Aldebaran,  Antares,  Caputs  Algol,  or  other  violent  fixed 
stars,  is  also  evil.  And  if  both  lights  be  afflicted  by  Tj  in  an 
angle,  it  is  testimony  of  a  tedious,  Ipug  illness. 

The  J  in  the  4th  with  ^f,  or  the  Q  with  *2*  are  testi- 
monies of  death ;  also  the  ])  near  the  cusp  of  the  ascendant 
in  D  of  (^  from  the  4th.  The  ])  combust  in  the  8th,  or  if 
lady  of  the  6th.  &iid  combust  in  the  ascendant  or  4th,  the 
same ;  and  especially  if  the  lord  of  the  8th  be  afflicted. 

The  (S  oi  ^  with  ©  is  a  very  ill  sign,  especially  when  she 
has  not  yet  passed  ©  ;  however,  when  the  (5  is  in  TT  or  i^ , 
it  is  not  quite  so  evil.* 

In  all  cases  the  multiplicity  of  testimonies  must  be  ob- 
served, the  strength  of  the  afflicting  planets,  and  the  absence 
of  assistance  to  neutralize  the  evil  influence,  before  you  pre- 
dict death. 

To  know  whether  the  Querent  be  really  ill  w  not. 
If  the  ascendant  be  not  afflicted,  nor  its  lord  out  of  fill  his 
essential  dignities,  nor  afflicted  by  F2 ,  (^ ,  or  the  lord  of  the 
6tb>  he  is  not.  Or  if  no  planet  afflict  the  6th  house  by  its 
presence,  or  the  J  be  not  afflicted  in  the  8th  or  12th,  or  if 
you  find  1/ ,  or  $ ,  or  3  in  the  ascendant,  or  ©  in  the  6th, 
or  the  })  and  lord  of  the  ascendant  in  good  aspect,  or  %  or 
$  casting  a  •)(-  or  A  to  the  cusp  of  the  ascendant  or  6th,  the 
party  is  not  really  sick,  but  at  the  utmost  some  sli^t  indis* 
position  has  occurred,  which  will  shortly  be  rectified. 

Whether  the  Disease  he  in  the  Body  or  Mind^  or  ^oth. 
If  the  ascendant,  ©,  and  })  be  all  afflicted,  the  disease  is 
*  We  shoMld  sar,  if  |t  be  in  25,  vhere  >  disposes  of  ©,  it  is  not  so  evil. 


DfTBODUOTIOir  TO  ASTBOLOGT.  |67 

then  through  the  whole  body ;  but  if  the  planets  which  dis- 
pose of  O  and  ]) ,  or  if  the  lord  of  the  ascendant,  or  two  of 
them,  be  afflicted,  the  disease  is  more  in  the  mind.  If  the 
ascendant,  the  }) ,  and  lord  of  the  Q  are  all,  or  two  of  them, 
afflicted^  and  the  lord  of  the  ascendant  and  the  dispositor  of 
the  ])  free,  the  affection  is  in  the  mind  and  not  in  the  body. 

If  I?  afflict  the  }) ,  he  shews  trouble  in  the  mind,  vexation 
and  care ;  but  if  7^  be  in  the  planet  afflicting  the  }) ,  the 
contrary ;  for  he  never  oppresses  the  mind,  but  always  the 
body. 

If  the  lord  of  the  house  in  which  ])  is,  and  the  lord  of  the 
ascendant  are  afflicted  by  Q,  or  combust,  or  under  the  beams 
of  O,  the  distemper  is  bodily.  But  if  the  ruler  of  >  and  the 
ruler  of  the  lord  of  the  ascendant  be  much  afflicted,  the  grief 
is  more  mental  thim  bodily.  Also  if  the  degree  ascending 
and  that  degree  where  D  is  be  more  afflicted  than  the  lords 
of  those  signs,  the  disease  is  more  in  the  mind ;  but  if  the 
lords  be  more  afflicted,  the  reverse. 

When  the  dispositors  of  the  lights  are  very  much  afflicted 
and  very  weak,  and  the  degree  ascending  have  a  Q  of  J  but 
no  ill  aspect  of  ^  or  (^,  the  person  is  much  tormented  in 
mind.  In  these  cases  Q  causes  the  mind  to  be  troubled  by 
pride,  self-conceit,  haughtiness,  &c.  $  argues  luxury,  or  a 
lasciviousness  which  disturbs  both  body  and  mind.  ^  shews 
foolish  fancies  and  fearful  imaginations. 

Of  the  Crises,  or  of  Critical  Days, 

If  the  disease  be  not  chronic,  you  will  find  great  alteration 
in  the  patient  near  those  times  when  ])  arrives  at  a  distance 
from  her  first  place,  when  the  patient  was  taken  ill,  of  45, 
90,  or  135  degrees.  To  leani  whether  these  crises  will  be 
good  or  evil,  see  how  she  is  aspected  at  thoe^  times.     If  she 


168  nrrEODUCTiojr  to  asteoloot. 

l>e  in  good  aspect  with  a  benevolent  planet,  it  promises  ease 
and  an  improved  condition ;  but  if  she  there  meet  with  evil 
aspects  of  malevolent  planets  or  the  lords  of  the  6th  or  8th, 
he  will  be  worse,  and  the  medicines  do  little  good.  I  have 
always  observed  that,  when  the  ])  came  at  the  crises  to  (j , 
a,  or  ^  of  that  planet  which  did  affict  the  ascendant,  ]), 
or  lord  of  the  ascendant,  or  when  she  came  to  such  aspect  of 
the  lord  of  the  6th  or  planets  placed  in  the  6th,  the  patient 
suffbred  much,  the  disease  ran  high,  and  medicines  given 
about  that  time  worked  Uttle  or  no  good.  When  she  came, 
however,  to  •)(•  or  A  of  the  lords  of  the  ascendant,  9th,  10th, 
or  1 1th  houses,  I  observed  some  interval  of  ease  or  amend- 
ment. So  when  the  lord  of  the  ascendant  came  to  any  good 
aspect  of  the  ©  (if  he  had  not  power  or  dominion  in  the  dis- 
ease), I  found  the  patient's  mind  much  relieved. 

How  long  it  may  he  before  Recovery, 

When  there  is  reason  to  believe  that,  by  God's  blessing, 
the  sick  person  shall  recover,  and  it  be  desired  to  know  when, 
observe  which  planet  is  lord  of  the  ascendant,  and  what  bene- 
volent planet  he  is  in  aspect  with ;  then  see  what  house  they 
are  in,  (that  is  the  one  which  applies  to  the  other's  aspect), 
whether  angles,  &c.,  and  what  signs  they  possess,  whether 
moveable,  &c.  Then  according  to  discretion  and  quality  of 
the  disease,  so  frame  the  measure  of  time.  In  general,  I 
judge  in  so  many  days  as  the  aspect  wants  degrees  of  being 
perfect,  if  the  sign  be  moveable  and  the  planet  angular ;  but 
if  swift  in  motion,  I  am  the  more  certain  that  the  patient  will 
begin  to  amend  in  so  many  days.  If  the  sign  be  common,  in 
which  the  application  is,  I  neither  judge  days,  weeks,  nor 
months,  but  use  discretion,  having  first  observed  the  nature 
of  the  disease. 


raTEODXTCTION   TO  ASTEOLOGT.  169 

The  ancient  role  was  as  follows : — 

Moveable  signs  shew days. 

Common  ditto    weeh9. 

Fixed  ditto months. 

Angles  are  equivalent  to    moveable  signs, 

Succeedent  houses  to common  signs. 

Cadent  houses  to    fixed  signs. 

It  is  well  to  observe,  also,  the  quick  or  slow  motion  of  the 
]) ,  the  sign  she  is  in,  and  her  situation  as  to  angles,  &c,  I 
often  find  that  when  the  lord  of  the  ascendant  quits  the  sign 
he  is  in,  and  enters  a  sign  in  which  he  has  dignities,  the 
patient  recovers  at  that  time,  or  feels  an  alteration  for  the 
better.  If  a  common  sign  be  on  the  6th,  28'  or  more,  I  say, 
that  the  disease  will  vary  in  two  weeks. 

Judgment  op  the  Disease  peom  the  Affliction  of  the 
Moon  at  the  fiest  Illness  of  the  Patient,  oe  the 
Time  op  asking  the  Question.* 

TFhoever  shall  he  first  taken  illy  or  compelled  to  take  to  his 
bed  when  the  })  is  afflicted  by  ^i  *^^  ^V  ^  >  if  ^^  ^^^^  ^^ 
nature  of  ^i ,  vnll,  in  a  great  measnre,  suffer  as  here  de- 
scribed. 

The  ])  in  T i  in  d  ^  Hi  or  ^  of  \i . — Headache  or  heaviness 
in  the  head,  much  discharge  at  the  nostrils,  dulness,  or  weari- 
ness of  the  eyes,  humours  falling  into  the  throat ;  weak  pulse, 
and  a  heavy  drowsiness  of  mind ;  loathing  at  the  stomach, 
violent  unseasonable  perspiration,  internal  heats,  and  externally 
cold.     The  patient  more  afflicted  at  night  than  by  day. 

The  ])in  0 ,  in  (j ,  $*c.  of  Tj  .-^Fevers  proceeding  from  ob- 
structions near  the  heart,  liver,  and  lungs,  occasioned  by  sur- 

*  The  student  may  rely  that  be  will  find  these  rules,  when  they  apply, 
to  be  infallible. — Zadkikl. 


170  IKTBOBUCnOK  TO  ASTBOLOOT. 

feits,  high  living,  &c.  The  pulse  high  and  immoderate,  the 
hody  inflated,  longs  oppressed,  ulcerated^  &e.  If  the  ^  he 
not  supported  by  benefics,  there  is  danger  of  death  within  14 
days. 

The })  in  Jlin  cj  T^ .  ^e. — The  disease  has  its  origin  in 
the  mind  by  too  much  care,  or  a  multiplicity  of  business,  or 
otherwise  by  fatigue  in  travelling  or  over-exercise.  There  is 
danger  of  a  small  fever ;  the  pain  is  dispersed  over  all  the 
body,  but  chiefly  in  the  joints.  The  vitals  are  afflicted,  the 
pulse  rare,  and  weak ;  there  are  frequent  perspirations,  sympr 
toms  of  spleen  and  consumption.  If  (^  also  afflict,  without 
assistance,  the  patient  will  hardly  Uve  10  days ;  but  if  It^  or 
$  assist,  the  sick  person  may  recover  after  a  long  period. 

The  ])  in  s  in  cS  of  ^,  $•(?. — Tie  breast  is  much  afflicted 
with  tough  phlegm,  or  slimy  matter;  there  is  cough,  and 
much  salivary  discharge.  Hoarseness,  catarrhs,  &c.,  with 
humours  falling  into  the  breast ;  the  windpipe  obstructed ; 
slight  fevers,  agues,  &c.  holding  a  long  time ;  also  pains  in 
the  bowels,  infirmity  in  the  reins  or  secrets.  If  J  be  de- 
creasing, and  near  the  body  of  ^ ,  the  disease  will  continue  a 
long  time. 

The  })  in  ^  in  (j,  ^c.  of  Tj . — ^The  sickness  arises  from 
bad  blood,  the  patient  suffers  with  heat  in  the  breast,  heart- 
bum,  violent  fevers,  troubled  pulse,  much  external  and  in- 
ternal heat,  faintness  at  the  heart,  swoonings,  the  stone ;  and 
sometimes  the  black  jaundice.  If  there  be  no  good  aspects 
to  prevent  it,  they  frequently  die  when  ])  comes  to  ^f  of  ^  . 

The  J  in  ttg  in  (j,  SfC.  ^  . — The  illness  arises  from  indi- 
gestion, obstructions  in  the  bowels,  &c. ;  shooting  pains  are 
felt  under  the  ribs,  &c. ;  flatulency,  gout,  or  aches  in  the 
thighs  or  feet,  &c.     The  patient  generally  is  sick  a  long  time. 

The  J)  in  ^  in  cJ,  $*c.  of  T^ . — ^The  disease  has  its  origin  in 
some  surfeit  of  wine  or  rich  food,  meat  ill  digested,  &c.,  or 


INTBOBITOTIOir  TO  ASTBOLOaT.  171 

from  excess  of  yenery ;  the  breast  is  affected,  al$Q  the  head ; 
there  is  no  appetite,  a  loathing  in  the  stomach,  cough,  hoarse- 
ness, &c.,  and  often  great  pain  in  the  joints,  knees,  and  thighs, 
with  an  itching  in  those  parts,  and  fear  t»f  sciatica. 

The  J  in  HV  m  (5>  ^c.  of  Ij  . — Denotes  a  disease  in  the  rw- 
tum  or  sphincter  muscle,  piles,  hemorrhoids,  or  fistula.  There 
is  very  likely  a  retention  of  urine,  or  the  reverse ;  stone  in  the 
bladder,  dropsical  humour,  &c.  It  may  be  that  it  is  gonorr- 
hea, &c.,  or  the  diseases  of  the  matrix.'*' 

The  ])  in  f  in  (j,  ^c,  of  ^2  • — ^The  patient  suffers  by  pains 
in  the  joints,  &c.,  or  fever,  extremes  of  heat  and  cold*  Illness 
often  happens  by  too  great  exertion  of  body  or  mind,  and 
cold  taken  afterwards  ;  there  is  much  melancholy  also.  And 
if  it  be  an  ^  of  fj  >  there  is  generally  a  spice  of  gout,  tumours 
or  swellings  in  the  hands,  thighs,  or  feet,  &c.  If  ^  have 
any  ill  aspect  to  }) ,  it  proves  a  violent  burning  fever. 

The  ])  in  Vf  in  cj,  ^c,  ^  .  —  The  disease  proceeds  from 
cold  or  melancholy.  It  brings  heaviness  of  the  breast  and 
stomach,  difficulty  of  breathing,  dry  coughs,  the  lungs  op- 
pressed, and  a  fever  is  approaching.  The  pain  is  greater  at 
night  than  in  the  day.  The  patient  continually  complains  of 
headache,  or  pain  in  the  left  ear,  or  of  a  rumbling  noise  in  his 
head.f 

*  These  latter  especially,  if  ?  throw  an  ill  aspect,  or  the  lord  of  the 
5th  house. 

t  We  can  speak  personally  as  to  this  effect.  We  were  taken  ill  in  the 
evening  of  the  Ist  March,  1829,  when  Dwas  in  w,  19^  and  h  in  25 
38<»,  and  we  suffered  extremely  daring  the  night,  and  had  ^lent  pains  in 
the  left  side  of  the  head,  and  sensations  of  noises,  as  of  the  workipg  of 
the  piston  of  a  steam-engine.  A  fever  ensued,  which  confined  us  to  bed 
for  three  weeks,  having  caught  cold  after  taking  mercury.  The  direction 
in  our  nativity  was  M.C.  d  0»  who,  being  in  c^  with  S  at  birth,  par- 
took  of  his  ill  qualities,  and  afflicted  the  ascendant  by  his  mundane 
square. 


172  IKTEODUOTION  TO  ASTEOLOQT. 

The  J  in  ^  in  (j,  $*c.  T? . — ^The  illness  is  occasioned  by 
too  much  toil  of  mind  or  body,  want  of  sleep,  or  due  re- 
freshment. The  malady  comes  on  unequally  with  remission 
or  intension.*  The  patient  suffers  by  noise  in  the  head,  by 
wind,  or  faintness  at  the  heart,  or  a  rising  and  danger  of 
suffocation  by  hysterical  fits,  &c. ;  and  by  sore  throat. 

The  ])  in  K  in  cJ,  $*c.  fj  • — The  complaint  arises  from 
cold,t  and  the  patient  is  afflicted  with  continual  fever,  fre- 
quently sighs,  suffers  pains  under  tlie  nipples  of  the  breast, 
and  about  the  heart ;  the  throat  suffers  from  much  phlegm, 
or  there  is  water  in  the  chest,  rotten  cough,  &c. 

Whoever  is  taken  ill  when  })  is  afflicted  hy  $  or  the  ©, 
suffers  in  the  following  manner  : — 

The  J  in  T  in  (j,  ^c.  of  (J . — ^The  disease  is  from  some 
distemper  of  the  membranes,  &c.  of  the  brain.  There  is 
continual  fever  and  restlessness,  extreme  thirst,  foul  tongue, 
or  inflammation  of  the  Uver,  heat  and  pain  in  the  breast,  high 
pulse,  and  often  delirium.  The  patient  is  generally  almost 
mad  with  pain,  either  cholic  or  cholera  pains,  &c.  in  the 
bowels.  If  after  the  J  leave  (J  she  go  to  (5  or  ^f  of  Tj , 
there  is  small  hope  of  life  ;  and  if  she  decrease  in  light,  and 
be  slow  in  motion,  there  is  scarce  any. 

The  })  in  ^  in  C>  ^c.  of  ^ . — There  is  an  abundance  of 
blood,  continual  fever,  the  whole  frame  disordered ;  sore 
throat,  with  inflammation  in  the  neck,  or  hind  part  thereof ; 
pain  in  the  bones,  broken  sleep,  and  a  foolish  longing  after 
wine  and  cold  water.  There  is  often  putrid  sore  throat  and 
also  hoarseness,  and  strangury,  stone,  or  gravel,  with  pain  in 
the  reins  or  kidneys,  or  disease  therein. 

*  This  till  3)  is  past  g  of  her  own  place,  when,  if  there  be  good  aspects^ 
the  sick  is  recoverable, 
t  Especially  wet  feet,  damp  linen,  &c. 


uttbodxtction  to  asthologt.  173 

The  J  in  n  t»  d>  ^<?'  <?.— A  violent  fever,  high  and  in- 
ordinate pulse;  there  are  obstmctionB  and  cormpt  blood, 
pains  all  over  the  body,  heat  in  the  reins,  and  sometimes 
spitting  of  blood ;  also  lameness  or  fractures  in  the  arms, 
pains  in  the  joints,  &e. 

The  }  in  s  m  c;J ,  ^c.  ^ ,  This  shews  a  disordered  stomach 
by  having  taken  too  much  to  drink,  &c.,  riot,  and  excess.  It 
often  tiuns  to  dysentery,  cough,  and  spitting  of  blood. 

The  ])  in  SI  in  d,  ^c.  ^ . — Too  much  blood  abounds,  weak 
pulse,  a  disturbed  brain,  raving,  and  strong  fits ;  loss  of  or 
depraved  appetite ;  distempers  of  the  heart,  heaviness  all  over 
the  body,  and  drowsiness.  There  is  danger  of  consumption. 
The  blood  is  over-heated,  the  body  dry  and  parched ;  there 
is  probability  of  pleurisy,  fainting,  and  swooning.  I  ever 
fear  this  d  ^^  cf  n^ore  than  in  any  other  sign. 

The  J  in  rf(  in  (5,  ^c,  ^.  Flux  in  the  bowels,  small 
fevers,  a  failing  pulse,  choUc,  flatulence,  weakness  in  the  legs, 
or  near  the  ancles.  If  ])  be  afflicted  by  ^  in  tip,  diseases 
are  not  easily  removed. 

The  J  in  £^  in  cJ,  ^c.  (J. — The  patient  is  grieved  with 
plentitude  of  blood,  and,  from  that  cause,  has  high  pulse,  no 
rest,  is  feverish,  and  an  inflammation  all  over  the  body.  The 
patient  has  taken  some  surfeit  by  excess  or  disorder  in  his 
diet,  or  the  blood  is  over-heated ;  or  there  is  stone  or  eravel 
in  the  kidneys.     Violent  burning  fevers  often  follow. 

The  J  in  r\in  d,  ^e.  (J. — ^There  is  generally  some  ulcer, 
lues,  gonorrhea,  &c.,  or,  if  a  child,  measles  ;  it  may  be  piles, 
or  hemorrhoids.  There  is  frequently  some  stoppage  in  the 
head  by  grievous  colds ;  and  as  the  blood  is  corrupt,  so  we 
find  blotches,  breakings  out,  &c.  If  there  be  reason  to  be- 
lieve it,  some  scandalous  disease  may  be  judged,  especially 
if  ?  afflict  ]) . 

The  J  in  f  in  (j,  $*c.  J  . — The  disease  is  in  general  vio- 


174  INTBOBTTOTIOir  TO  A8TBOLOOT. 

leiit,  and  caused  by  gluttony  or  repletion.  There  is  fever 
frequently  very  high,  or  choleric  passion  ;  but  the  pulse  is 
often  faint,  and  beats  slow  and  feeble.  Inordinate  exercise 
has  frequently  been  the  cause  of  the  disease ;  and  he  suffers 
pestilent  fever,  &c.  It  shews  hand  and  foot  gout,  breakings 
out,  sore  throat,  &c.,  and,  at  times,  sore  and  inflamed  eyes. 
Also,  hurts  by  horses. 

The  ])  in  Vf  in  cS,  ^c.  (J . — Nausea  abounds,  vomiting  and 
flux.  A  puffing  up  of  the  sinews,  (such  as  cholera  cramps), 
inflaitkmation  of  die  breast,  and  humours  in  the  hands  or 
flngers.  The  face  is  yeUow  and  sunken,  the  body  e^ttremely 
wasted,  and  the  blood  corrupt.  The  pulse  remits,  imd  is  slow. 
The  yellow  jaundice  happens  under  these  aspects. 

The  ])  in  ^  in  cj  ^c,  (J . — If  })  be  slow  in  motion,  and 
decreasing  in  Mght,  the  disease  proceeds  from  sharp  and 
violent  a£foctions,  or  vehement  passions.  There  is  pain  at 
the  heart,  swooning  fits,  high  pulse,  great  pain  in  the  chest, 
and  much  difficulty  in  breathing. 

The  })  in  K  in  c5,  ^c.  (J.  The  body  is  full  of  gross  hu- 
mours, the  disease  is  from  too  much  drinking  and  excess,  and 
is  most  prevalent  in  the  night  time.  The  party  is  troubled 
with  a  kind  of  delirium,  (frequently  it  shews  that  they  are 
yet  drunk),  they  have  vehement  thirst,  sharp  burning  fevers, 
and  are  desirous  of  wine.  They  have  generally  a  looseness 
and  much  pain  in  the  bowels,  or  a  violent  cough  and  great 
expectoration,  and  are  almost  suffocated  with  phlegm ;  the 
body  is  swollen,  and  there  is  danger  of  dropsy.* 

*  Where  various  diseases  are  named,  the  student  must  look  to  other 
testimonies  to  ascertain  the  exact  complaint. 


nrrBODtrGTioir  to  astbologt.' 
Fisi  12. 


175 


Zg'WfiJ 


QlTESTlOK. — A  sick  Doctor;    what 
curable  ? 


is  his  Disease?     Is  it 


To  learn  what  part  of  the  body  is  affected,  observe  that,  as 
the  ascendant  is  not  afflicted^  you  must  look  to  the  6th  house, 
and  see  if  it  be  so.  Therein  we  find  ^  in  his  fall ;  and  as 
he  naturally  signifies  diseases  by  his  presence,  I  concluded 
that,  from  thence  and  that  house  I  must  require  the  part 
aggrieved. 

T  represents  the  head. 


176  HJTBODUCTION  TO  A8TB0L00T. 

^    in  T  shews  the  breast.* 

(^,  lord  of  the  ascendant,  in  SI,  signifies  the  heart.*  The 
lord  of  the  ascendant  has  just  separated  i&om  a  O  of  ^ » 
being  at  that  time  in  ^ ,  which  signifies  and  rules  oyer  the 
breast  and  stomach.  From  all  these  testimonies  I  concluded 
that  the  parts  of  the  body  grieved  were  the  head,  breast,  heart, 
and  stomach ;  and  that  there  was  lodged  in  the  breast  or 
stomach  some  obstruction,  which  caused  all  his  disease  and 
suffering. 

From  what  Cause  the  Sickness  was. 

The  principal  significator  being  ^,  and  he  in  his  own 
terms,  and  })  disposed  of  by  him  and  applying  to  him, 
shewed  such  diseases  as  he  causes,  and  which  might  exist  in 
the  head  and  breast.  ^ ,  lord  of  the  ascendant,  was  also  in 
the  terms  of  ^ ,  and  applied  to  Q  of  0,  who  was  in  the 
terms  of  (J .  So  that  dry,  melancholy  diseases  were  shewn 
by  Jj ,  and  heat  or  fever  by  ^ .  And,  indeed,  when  I  came 
to  speak  to  him,  be  was  suffering  great  pain  and  rumbling  in 
his  head,  was  very  silent,  dull,  and  melancholy ;  he  slept  very 
little,  had  a  very  dry  cough,  and  complained  of  great  weak- 
ness and  pain  in  his  breast  and  at  his  heart.  His  complexion 
was  between  black  and  yellow,  as  if  inclined  to  jaundice ;  and 
he  had  also  a  lingering  consumption  and  great  weariness  all 
over  him,  with  pains  in  his  joints,  shewn  by  ])  in  an  airy 
sign.  The  ascendant  is  V{,  which  signifies  the  secrets,  stone 
in  the  bladder,  &c. ;  so  the  })  in  c:::  shews  the  secrets  and 
diseases  therein,  &c.  Hence  he  had  great  difficulty  in  making 
water,  voided  red  gravel,  and  suffered  great  pain  in  those 
parts. 

Whether  the  Disease  would  be  curable  or  not  ? 
The  author  of  the  disease  being  1^  ,  shewed  it  would  be  of 
*  This  will  be  seen  by  the  Table  at  the  end  of  this  chapter. 


INTBOBXTCTIOir  TO  ASTBOLOaT. 


177 


some  continuance,  for  he  is  a  slow  ponderous  planet ;  besides, 
the  angles  of  the  figure  are  all  fixed,  and  the  lord  of  the  as- 
cendant, O,  and  >,  are  all  in  fixed  signs.  The  lights  are  in 
a  aspect  to  each  other  from  angles,  and  both  in  the  terms  of 
an  evil  planet ;  and  the  lord  of  the  6th  in  a  fixed  sign :  all 
these  shewed  a  long  disease.  The  j)  being  in  the  4th  in  as- 
pect to  ^  in  the  6th,  and  applying  to  D  of  0,  who  has  dig- 
nities in  the  6th,  and  the  lord  of  the  4th  in  the  6th,  and  lord 
of  the  8th  in  the  8th,  the  testimonies  were  strong  for  his 
death :  he  died  the  1 4th  Augtist  following. 

Fig  13. 


GiCil 


178  .INTBOBXrCTIOir  to  ASTBOLOOTf 

QlTBSTioif. — What  is  the  Disease?  and  will  the  Patient  live 
or  die  ? 

The  ascendant  is  irp,  and  it  is  afflicted  by  the  presence  of 
(J,  who  is  partly  lord  of  the  8th  house,  as  great  part  of  T 
is  ahready  therein.  Hence  from  the  ascendant  chiefly  we 
must  learn  the  cause  and  nature  of  the  disease,  and  part 
afflicted.  A  fixed  sign  t»  is  on  the  6th,  afflicted  by  O,  and 
^ ,  lord  of  the  6th,  is  in  0 ,  an  earthy  sign,  of  the  same  na- 
ture as  'np,  the  ascendant.  The  }) ,  a  general  significator  in 
all  diseases,  is  also  in  ii]^  in  (5  with  g .  All  these  shewed 
the  patient  to  be  greatly  afflicted  with  the  spleen,  cholic,  and 
obstructions  in  his  bowels,  small  feyer,  flatulence,  and  a  failing 
weak  pulse.  And  as  the  J  and  (J  are  in  the  ascendant^ 
the  patient  was  perplexed  with  distempers  in  the  head,  slept 
unquietly,  &c.     {All  which  was  true.) 

Will  the  Patient  live  or  die  ? 

All  the  significators  promised  death. 

1st.  O,  light  of  time,  was  in  close  D  to  ^ ,  lord  of  the  6th 
in  fixed  signs. 

2d.    The  ascendant  was  extremely  afflicted  by  presence  of 
S,  he  being  lord  of  nearly  all  the  8th  house. 

3d.    The  ])  was  afflicted  by  (J^  in  the  house  of  life. 

4th.  The  ])  separated  from  the  ^  of  g ,  lord  of  the  ascend- 
ant, in  signs  of  long  ascension,  and  did  transfer  his 
light  to  % ,  lord  of  the  4th  and  8th  houses,  denoting 
death  and  the  grave. 
N.B. — ^The  patient  died  the  28th  of  the  month,  when  5 

came  to  the  D  of  ^  and  d  of  Q  ui  the  figure.  The  ]>  came 

then  to  ^  O,  and  had  transited  the  cusp  of  ^e  6tii  house 

the  day  preceding,  viz.  tsj  14". 


XNTBOBUCTIOir  TO  A8TE0L0GT. 


179 


A  TABLE 

SHBWIKa  WHAT  PABTS   OF  MAN's   BODY  BTEET  PLANET 

sicunriBS  is  the  twelve  signs. 


SIONS. 

h 

n 

i 

O 

? 

? 

}) 

T 

Breast 
Arms 

Neck 
Throat 
Heart 
Bowels 

Head 

Bowels 

Eyes 

Thighs 

Reins 
Feet 

Secrets 
Legs 

Head 
Knees 

0 

Heart 
Breast 
Bowehi 

Neck 
Shoidden 
Arms 
Bowels 

Throat 
Reins 

Knees 

Secret- 

Members 

Head 

Thighs 
Feet 

Throat 
Legs 

n 

Heart 
Bowels 

Breast 
Reins 
gecrets 

Breast 

Arms 

Secrets 

Legs 
Anctes 

Throat 
Thighs 

Head 
Knees 

Shoulders 
Arms 
Thighs 
Feet 

s 

Bowels 

Reins 

Secrets 

Heart 

Secrets 

Thighs 

Breast 
Feet 

Feet 

Arms 

Shoulders 

Knees 

Eves 

Throat 

Legs 

Knees 

Head 

Breast 

Stomach 

SI 

Beins 

Secrets 

Bowels 
Thighs 
Knees 

Heart 

Bowels 

Knees 

Head 

Heart 
Breast 
Legs 

Throat 
Arms 
Shoulders 
Feet 

Arms 

Shoulders 

Bowels 

1W 

Thighs 
Secrets 
Feet 

Reins 
Knees 

Bowels 
Legs 

Throat 
Neck 

Stomach 
Heart 
Bowels 
Feet 

Head 

Breast 

Heart 

Arms 

Shoulders 

Bowels 

£b 

Knees 
Thighs 

Head 
Eyes 
Secrets 
Legs 

Reins 

Secrets 

Feet 

Arms 
Shoulders 

Head 
Intestines 

Throat 
Heart 
Stomach 
Bowels 

Breast 
Heart 
Reins 
Bowels 

nl 

Knees 
Legs 

Thighs 
Feet 

Head 
Arms 
Secrets 
Thighs 

Breast 
Heart 

Throat 

Reins 

Secrets 

Arms 
Shoulders 
Back 
Bowels 

Stomach 
Heart 
Bowels 
Secrets 

t 

Legs 
Feet 

Head 

Thighs 

Knees 

Throat 
Hands 
Thighs 
Feet 

Heart 
Bowels 

Arms 
Shoulders 
Secrets 
Thighs 

Breast 
Heart 
Reins 
Secrets 

Back 

Bowels 

Thighs 

Vf 

Head 
Feet 

Eyes 
Neck 
Knees 
Legs 

Arms 
Shoulders 
Knees 
Legs 

Back 
Bowels 

Breast 
Heart 
Thighs 

Stomach 

Heart 

Secrets 

Reins 

Thighs 

Knees 

m 

Necl: 

Head 

Arms 
Shonldera 
Broast 
Feet 

Breast 
Heart 
Legs 

Reins 
Secrets 

Heart 
Knees 

Heart 

Bowels 
'  Thighs 

Secrets 

Legs 

Ancles 

X 

Arms 

ShouMerfl 

Neck 

Head 

Breast 

Heart 

Heart 
Bowels 

Ancles 
Feet 

Secrets 
Thighs 

Neck 

Throat 

Bowels 

Reins 
Secrets 
Thighs 
Knees 

Thighs 
Feet 

180  ETTBODUCTlOir  TO  ASTBOLOGY. 

The  Diseases  each  Plaket  naturally  signifies  when  it  he- 
eomes  the  ajiictor,  and  is  posited  in  any  of  the  Twelve 
Smirs. 

DISEASES   OE   SATUBlT. 

F?  in  T  signifies  rheum,  melancholy,  vapours,  cold  in  the 
head,  ohstructions,  stoppage  in  the  stomachy  pains  in  the 
teeth,  deafness,  &c. 

^  in  0  signifies  swelling  in  the  neck  and  throat,  king's 
evil,  scurvy,  hoarseness,  melancholy,  and  chronic  distempers 
about  the  neck  and  throat. 

f?  in  n  signifies  infirmities  incident  to  the  arms  and  shoul- 
ders, consumption,  black  jaundice,  and  diseases  proceeding 
from  bad  blood. 

^2  in  ffi  denotes  phthisic,  ulcerations  in  the  lungs,  ob- 
structions and  bruises  in  the  breast,  ague,  scurvy,  cancer,  &:c. 

^2  in  ii  signifies  the  heart  afflicted  by  grief  or  poison,  con- 
sumption of  the  reins  or  inwsurd  pwrts,  vapours,  weakness, 
and  pains  in  the  back,  &c. 

^2  in  iij^  shews  the  blood  corrupted,  obstructions  in  the 
bowels,  costiveness,  weakness  in  the  thighs,  melancholy, 
gripings,  stone,  &c. 

F^  in  £1  shews  the  blood  corrupted,  back  and  kidneys  dis- 
tempered, strangury,  consumptive  pains  in  the  knees  and 
thighs,  sciatica  and  gout. 

^2  in  1T|,  denotes  swellings  or  distempers  of  the  secret  parts, 
melancholy,  piles,  palsy,  gout  in  the  hands  and  feet. 

^2  in  ^  signifies  weakness  in  the  hips  and  thighs,  old 
aches  and  bruises  in  those  parts,  and  sciatica  or  gout. 

^2  in  Vf  denotes  the  gout  in  the  lower  parts,  pains  and 
obstructions  in  the  head,  ague,  &c. 

^2  in  n::^  signifies  disorders  in  the  head  and  teeth,  defects 
in  the  ears,  pains  in  the  joints,  bruises,  swellings  in  the  legs, 
Imd  sometimes  a  sore  diroat« 


BfTBODTICTIOir  TO  ABTBOLOOT.  181 

T2  in  K  giTes  deflcudoiis  of  rhemn»  king's  eyil,  consumption, 
all  distanpers  of  the  feet  and  toes,  such  as  the  gout,  and 
iUness  by  colds. 

DISEASES  07  JUPITSB. 

11  ia  T  produces  distempers  in  the  head,  a  quinsy  or 
swelling  in  the  throat,  chiefly  from  ill  blood  in  the  veins  of 
the  head ;  and  causes  strange  dreams  and  imaginations. 

11  ia  t^  brings  distempers  in  tiie  throat,  wind  in  the  blood, 
gripings  in  the  bowels,  and  goutish  humours  in  the  hands  and 
arms. 

%  in  n. — A  pleurisy,  or  some  disorder  of  the  reins. 

"]/  in  s  gives  the  dropsy,  tiie  stomach  offended,  bad 
appetite,  corrupt  blood,  scurvy,  surfeits,' &c. 

11  in  SI  indicates  a  fever,  pleurisy,  the  heart  ill  affected. 

11  m  rgi  indicates  a  consumption,  obstructions  of  the 
lungs,  melancholy,  cold  and  dry  liver. 

11  hi  :f^  shews  the  patient  hath  too  much  blood,  whence 
arise  obstructions,  corrupt  blood,  fever,  piles,  tumours,  in- 
flammations, &c. 

Ijl  in  1Y|,  signifies  the  strangury,  piles,  the  blood  discharged 
with  watery  humours,  whence  arise  dropsy,  &c. 

"^^  in  ^  denotes  some  choleric  distemper,  arising  from 
putrefaction  of  the  blood ;  a  fever,  pains  and  swellings  about 
the  knees,  &c. 

1^  in  Vf . — The  patient  is  afflicted  with  melancholy,  ob- 
structions in  the  throat,  &c. 

"^^  in  t;:;: . — ^The  blood  abounds  too  much,  whence  it  is  cor- 
rupted, and  many  diseases  and  flying  pains  afflict  the  body. 
It  gives  lumbago. 

7/  in  K  • — The  blood  is  too  thin  and  waterish,  which  breeds 
dropsy. 


182  JNTEODUCTION   TO   ASTEOLOGTj 


DISEASES   OF  MABS. 


(J  in  T  signifies  the  patient  is  almost  distracted  with  a 
violent  pain  in  his  head,  rheum  in  the  eyes,  want  of  rest,  &c. 

(J^  in  0  denotes  extreme  pain  in  the  throat  and  neck,  king's 
evil,  weakness  in  the  loins,  and  the  gravel  or  stone. 

(J  in  n  shews  the  hlood  is  corrupted ;  itch,  breakings  out, 
surfeit,  fever,  pains  in  the  arms  and  shoulders,  disorders  in 
the  secret  parts,  strangury,  &c. 

(J  in  ffi  indicates  pains  in  the  breast  and  stomach,  a  dry 
cough,  or  a  tumour  in  the  thighs :  accidents  to  the  feet. 

^ia  SI  denotes  affliction  at  the  heart,  choleric  humours, 
gravel  in  the  kidnies,  pain  in  the  knees,  &c. 

(^  in  tij^  signifies  choleric  humours,  obstructions  in  the 
bowels,  bloody  fiux,  worms  in  children,  humours  in  the  legs. 

^  in  ^  produces  diseases  in  the  reins  and  kidnies,  stone 
or  gravel,  urine  hot,  lues,  &c.,  as  may  be  suspected. 

(J  in  1T\_  shews  a  suspicion  of  some  venereal  distemper,  or 
ulcer  in  the  secret  parts,  pains  in  the  bladder,  pains  in  the 
head,  overflowing  of  courses,  &c. 

(J  in  Jf  produces  pain  or  ulcers  in  the  hips  and  thighs  by 
humours  settied  in  those  parts,  and  an  extreme  heat  in  the 
mouth  and  throat. 

(J^  in  Vf  denotes  lameness  in  the  knees,  hands,  or  arms,  or 
a  flying  gout. 

(^  in  i::^  signifies  blood  over-heated,  pains  in  the  legs,  sur* 
feit,  or  fever. 

(J  in  K  gives  lameness  in  the  feet,  by  corrupt  humours 
settled  there  ;  sometimes  the  heart  is  afflicted,  &c. 

DISEASES   OF  THE   STJIT. 

« 

O  in  T  produces  sore  eyes,  megrims,  head  disturbed, 
fevers,  &c. 


JKTBODXICTTOlir  TO  ASTBOLOeX.  183 

'  O  in  0    denotes  tumours  in  the  knees,  quinsy  or  sore 
throat,  breakings  out  and  swellings  in  those  parts. 

0  in  n. —  Blood  inflamed,  pestilential  fevers,  breakings 
out  in  several  parts  of  the  body,  scurvy,  pains  and  weakness 
in  the  legs. , 

O  in  s  shews  the  measles  or  small  pox,  a  disordered 
stomach,  hoarseness,  dropsy  or  swelling  in  the  feet. 

O  in  £2  indicates  violent  pains  in  the  head,  madness,  stone, 
pains  in  the  back,  plague,  spotted  fever. 

O  in  itj  produces  humours  in  the  bowels,  obstnictions  in 
the  stomach,  bloody  flux,  sore  throat,  or  swellings  in  the  neck. 

0  in  £1. — Inflammation  of  the  blood,  pains  in  the  arms 
and  shoulders,  stone  and  gravel,  the  venereal  distemper,  &c. 

0  in  1Y|^  indicates  distempers  in  the  secret  parts,  sharpness 
of  urine,  obstructions  in  the  stomach,  and  female  courses ; 
also  phlegmatuB  dolens, 

0  in  ^ .  —  The  thighs  are  afflicted  by  hot  humours ;  a 
fistula,  fevers,  swoonings,  &c. 

0  in  Vf  signifies  lameness  about  the  knees,  bowels  disor- 
dered, and  a  fever. 

O  in  «:» . — The  blood  inflamed,  breakings  out,  reins  disor- 
dered, gravel,  stone,  strangury,  &c. 

0  in  K  • — ^The  secret  parts  afflicted,  strangury,  and  violent 
pains  in  those  parts. 

DISEASES  01*  TENTTS. 

$  in  T  indicates  the  disease  is  in  the  head  from  abund- 
ance of  moist  humours,  lethargy,  reins  afflicted,  imd  head  dis- 
ordered by  cold. 

$  in  0  signifies  pain  in  the  head  or  secret  parts,  swellings 
in  the  neck  from  moist  humours  in  the  head. 

$  in  n  denotes  a  corrupted  blood,  king's  evil,  dropsy,  and 
a  flux  of  rheum« 


184  IKTBODUOTIOV  TO  iLBTBOLOOT* 

$  in  $  shews  the  stomadi  is  much  offended  with  cold, 
raw>  undigested  humours ;  many  times  with  a  surfeit,  &c. 

$  in  J2  • — Some  ill  affection  of  the  heart,  love  passion,  &c.» 
pains  in  the  legs,  of  had  consequence. 

$  in  'np  shews  some  distemper  in  the  bowels,  a  Aux,  or  the 
worms,  mucus  in  the  bowels. 

$  in  £h  denotes  a  gonorrhea  or  distemper  in  the  rems,  or 
surfeit  by  too  plentiful  eating  or  drinking,  and  windy  dis- 
orders. 

$  in  in,  produces  some  venereal  distemper,  and  pain  in  the 
private  parts,  &c. 

$  in  ^ . — Hip  gout,  surfeits,  cold  and  moist  humours. 

$  in  w  produces  gout  in  the  knees  and  thighs,  and  swell- 
ings in  those  parts. 

$  in  ss: . — Pains  and  swellings  in  the  legs  or  knees  firom  a 
cold  cause,  and  the  heart  afflicted. 

$  in  K  indicates  lameness  in  the  feet,  swellings  in  the  legs, 
a  fluiL,  windy  complaints,  &c. 

DISEASES  OF  IfSBCUBT. 

$  in  T  shews  the  disease  lies  in  the  head  and  brain,  ver- 
tigo and  spasms  in  the  head,  and  sometimes  disorders  of  the 
womb. 

$  in  ()  produces  defects  in  the  ^roat,  swellings  in  the 
neck,  hoarseness,  and  also  pain  in  the  feet. 

$  in  n  signifies  windiness  in  the  blood,  gouty  pains  in  the 
head,  arms,  &c. 

$  in  s  produces  a  cold  stomach,  gripings,  windiness, 
distillation  of  rheum,  lameness  in  the  legs  and  knees  from 
colds,  &c. 

$  in  Q  indicates  tremblings,  melancholy,  pains  in  the 
back,  occasioned  by  colds  caught  in  the  feet. 

^  iarjl  imports  much  wind  in  the  bowels,  obstructions, 
pains  in  the  head,  short  breath,  and  wind  cholic. 


XHTBODXrcnON  TO  ASTEOI.O€^T.  185 

y  in  ^  shews  stoppage  (^  urine,  obstructions,  blood  dis- 
ordered ;  breast,  lungs,  and  reins  afflicted. 

$^  in  1T\,  denotes  distempers  in  tl^  secret  parts,  afflictions 
of  the  bowels,  running  pains  in  ^e  arms  and  shoulders. 

$  in  ^  shews  distempers  in  the  reins,  weakness  in  the 
back,  stoppage  at  the  stomach,  coughs,  swellings  in  ^e  hips 
and  thighs. 

$  in  Vf  denotes  stoppage  of  urine,  goutish  humours  above 
the  knees,  pains  in  the  back,  melancholy,  &c. 

^  in  rir  imports  wind  in  the  blood,  running  pains  in  dif- 
ferent parts  of  the  body,  fluxes  and  disorders  in  the  bowels. 

^  in  K  signifies  pains  in  the  head,  weakness  in  the  legs 
and  feet,  a  gonorrhea,  or  a  distemper  in  the  reins,  &c. 

DISEASES  O?  THE  MOON. 

)  in  T  signifies  convulsions,  defluxions  of  rheum  from  the 
head,  lethargy,  weakness  in  the  eyes,  and  pains  in  the  knees« 

])  in  (5  produces  pains  in  the  legs  and  feet,  swellings, 
stoppage  in  and  sore  throat,  &c. 

])  in  n  denotes  a  wandering  gout  in  the  legs,  arms,  hands,, 
and  feet,  surfeits,  and  great  obstructions. 

])  in  s  shews  the  stomach  much  afflicted,  a  surfeit,  small- 
pox, convulsions,  falling  sickness,  tympany,  or  dropsy. 

})  in  ii . — ^The  heart  afflicted,  sore  throat,  quinsy,  king's 
evil,  &c. 

])  in  tq;  signifies  great  pain  and  disorders  in  the  bowels, 
melancholy  blood,  obstructions,  weakness  in  the  arms  and 
shoulders. 

>  in  £^  denotes  the  reins  are  distempered,  obstructions  in 
the  stomach,  weakness  in  the  back,  whites  in  women,  surfeits, 
pleurisy,  &c. 

])  in  Dl.  shews  the  distemper  is  in  the  secrets,  smaU-pox, 
dropsy,  poison,  the  heart  afflicted,  swoonings,  &c» 


186  .    INTEODIJCTION  TO  ASTBOLOOT, 

])  in  ^  imports  lameness  or  weakness  in  the  thighs,  dis- 
tempers in  the  bowels,  &c. 

])  in  Vf  signifies  the  stone,  weak  back,  gout  iu  the  knees, 
whites  in  women,  &c. 

])  in  rs:  signifies  hysterics,  swellings,  and  pains  in  the  legs 
and  secret  parts. 

])  in  K  shews  cold  taken  in  the  feet,  and  body  disordered 
thereby ;  swellings  in  the  legs,  dropsies,  and  the  body  OTer- 
charged  with  moist  humours.'" 


CHAPTER   XXX. 

THE   SEVENTH  HOUSE,   AlO)   ITS   QUESTIONS. 

This  House  signifies  Marriage,  Love  Questions,  Lawsuits  and 
Controversies,  Contracts,  Wars,  Duels,  open  Enemies,  Bar^ 
gains,  Thefts,  Fugitives,  and  all  matters  regarding  Strangers. 

The  questions  to  be  judged  by  this  house  being  more  difficult 
than  those  of  any  other  house,  I  have  been  more  lengthy  in 
deUyering  the  opinions  of  the  ancients  as  well  as  moderns 
thereon ;  and  have  written  several  aphorisms  concerning  its 
questions. 

APHORISMS  AND  CONSIDERATIONS 

VOB.  THE  BETTBR  JUDGING  ANT  HORARY  QUESTION,  ESPKCIALLT  TH08S 
OF  THE  7th  house. 

1 .  See  the  question  be  radical  and  fit  to  be  judged. 

2.  Be  not  confident  of  the  judgment  if  either  the  first  or 

*  This  table  is  taken  from  the  old  Arab  writers  on  astrology,  who 
flourished  many  centuries  back :  they  used  many  terms  inconsistent  with 
the  modem  nomenclature  of  diseases ;  but  as  the  human  frame  is  stilL 
the  same,  so  are  its  diseases,  though  called  by  different  names.  Thus, 
Mercury  m  Aquarius  is  said  to  cause  "  wind  in  the  blood,"  by  which,  we 
presume,  was  meant  spasmodic  action,  arising  from  debility. 


INTIWDirCTION  TO  ASTBOLOar*  187 

last  degrees  of  a  sign  ascend.  If  few  degrees  ascend, 
the  matter  is  not  yet  ripe  for  judgment :  if  the  latter 
degrees,  the  matter  of  the  question  is  elapsed,  or  the 
querent  has  heen  tampering  with  other  artists,  or 
despairs  of  success.     Meddle  not  with  it  at  that  time. 

3.  If  ^ ,  c? ,  or  8  be  in  the  1 0th  house  unfortunate,  it  will 

end  in  the  discredit  of  the  artist. 

4.  Judge  not  upon  every  trivial  motion  or  light  question,  or 

when  the  querent  has  not  wit  to  know  what  he  would 
demand. 

5.  Observe  well  the  strength  and  condition  of  }) ;  for  it  is 

far  better  that  the  lord  of  the  ascendant  be  unfortunate 
than  the  ]) . 

6.  The  evil  planets  shew  tardiness  and  difficulty  in  every 

question,  unless  })  and  they  receive  each  other  in  the 
signification. 

7.  The  benefics.  If.  and    ?,  never  import  evil  but  when 

ruling  evil  houses ;  and  if  they  be  significiators  without 
reception,  even  then  they  put  forward  the  matter. 

8.  If  J  be  void  of  course,  there  is  no  great  hope  of  the 

question,  unless  she  be  in  © ,  0 »   f »  or  K . 

9.  Observe  from  what  planet  ])  last  separated ;  for  it  will 

shew  what  has  already  happened :  if  from  a  fortune, 
good;  but  from  a  malefic,  evil;  according  to  the 
nature  of  the  house  the  planet  rules  and  is  in. 

10.  The  application  of  J  shews  the  present  condition  of  the 

matter,  and  what  may  be  expected.  If  ])  apply  to  a 
planet  in  his  fall,  it  denotes  trouble  and  delays. 

11.  If  evil  planets  promise  good,  it  will  be  imperfect  or  less 

than  is  expected,  and  come  with  much  effort;  and 
if  they  foreshew  evil,  it  will  be  greater  than  may  be 
feared. 

12.  If  malefics  threaten  evil,  observe  whether  ©,  7/,  or  ? 


188  nrpEODxrcTioir  to  asteologt. 

cast  any  good  aspect  to  them^  for  then  the  evil  will  be 
mitigated. 

13.  If  the  fortunes  promise  good,  bat  are  weak,  or  behold 

not  the  ascendant,  they  perform  but  little  without  re- 
ception. 

14.  A  planet  peregrine,  viz.  haying  no  essential  dignities  at 

all,  is  very  malicious. 

15.  Confide  not  too  much  in  a  fortune,  unless  he  be  in  his 

essential  dignities. 

16.  In  a  figure  where  both  fortunes  and  infortunes  ar^  equally 

weak  and  ill  placed,  yenture  not  a  judgment,  but  defer 
the  party  for  another  time. 

17.  In  all  questions  where  the  significator  of  the  thing  is 

combust,  or  in  ^  to  Q,  he  can  bring  nothing  to  per- 
fection. 

18.  If  one  infortune  be  joined  to  another,  the  good  they  pro- 

mise will  come  to  nothing ;  but  the  eyil  they  threaten 
will  be  more  yiolent. 

19.  The  lord  of  the  ascendant  out  of  his  dignities,  cadent, 

&c.,  shews  the  querent  out  of  all  hopes  in  the  business. 

20.  A  planet  under  the  beams  of  0>  (^-  within  12  degrees), 

has  no  fortitude  ;*  if  within  sixteen  minutes  of  Q,  he 
is  in  cazimi  or  heart  of  Q,  and  then  he  is  yery  strong. 

21.  If  the  dispositor  of  the  significator  be  oriental,  imd  he 

either  ^ ,  1^,  or  (J^,  the  matter  is  sooner  performed ; 
but  if  ?  or  § ,  later :  the  reverse,  if  they  be  occi- 
dental. 

22.  If  the  significator  of  the  thing  desired  be  in  k  fixed  sign, 

it  denotes  stability,  and  that  the  thing  shall  continue, 
whether  it  be  begun  or  is  to  be  begun ;  if  he  be  in 
common  signs,  it  shews  the  probability  of  the  matter, 

*  We  should  judge  that,  if  the  planet  dispose  of  0  by  house,  this  role 
does  not  hold.    We  have  no  faith  in  the  doctrine  of  CazimL 


INTEODirCTION   OPO  ASTBOLOeX.  189 

but  not  its  conclusion ;  and  if  in  moveable  signs,  a 
sudden  resolution  or  concluding  the  matter  one  way 
or  other.  Hence  we  begin  the  foundations  of  build- 
ings when  the  significators  are  fixed ;  short  journeys 
when  moveable ;  but  things  wherein  a  mediocrity  is 
desirable,  when  they  are  in  moveable  signs. 

23.  The  ^  or  lord  of  the  ascendant,  with  3»  brings  damage, 

according  to  the  house  they  are  in.  The  g3  ^  in  Hke 
manner  beneficial. 

24.  If  in  any  question  you  find  ])  afflicted,  there  k  seldom 

any  good  comes  of  the  matter. 

25.  If  ^  or  lord  of  the  ascendant  be  in  their  fall,  the  querent 

despairs  of  the  matter,  nor  does  he  much  care  whether 
it  be  performed  or  not. 

26.  Consider  diligently  the  planet  afflicting  the  significator 

of  the  thing  demanded,  and  what  house  he  is  lord  of, 
and  where  placed ;  from  the  nature  of  those  houses 
require  the  cause  obstructing. 

27.  The  most  powerful  affliction  to  the  ])   is  when  she  is 

combust,  and  if  she  applies  to  ©  it  is  the  worst. 

28.  If  an  infortune  aspect  your  significator,  and  they  be  both 

peregrine  or  retrograde,  you  may  judge  that  the  nus- 
chief  threatened  is  almost  inevitable. 

29.  Take  especial  notice  whether  any  frustration  or  prohi- 

bition be  before  the  perfect  aspect  of  the  significators ; 
the  planet  which  frustrates  hinders  the  thing  de- 
manded. 

30.  In  all  questions  of  gain,  look  well  to  0 :  the  querent 

will  get  by  persons  or  things  connected  with  the 
house  it  is  in ;  but  if  it  be  afflicted,  he  loses  in  the 
same  way. 

31.  In  questions  of  marriage,  an  evil  planet  in  the  7th  shews 

ill  agreement  in  the  married  state. 


190  ISTTEODIJCTION   TO  ASTEOLOGY. 

32.  If  the  lord  of  the  Bth  be  unfortunate  m  the  8th,  the 

querent  will  suffer  by  the  death  of  some  female ;  or, 
concerning  debts  due  to  him,  by  dead  men. 

33.  In  what  house  you  find  1/  or  $  well  dignified,  expect 

benefits  by  men  or  things  signified  by  that  house ;  as 
if  in  the  3d,  by  kindred ;  in  the  4th,  by  your  father 
or  lands,  &c. ;  in  the  5th,  by  play,  pleasure,  &c. ;  and 
80  of  the  others.  And  beware  of  slander  or  damage 
through  that  house  where  ^  falls* 


QUESTIONS  CONCERNING  MARRIAGE. 

Whether  a  Man  shall  Marry  ? 

If  a  man  ask  this  question,  let  the  lord  of  the  ascendant, 
]) ,  and  % ,  also  planets  in  the  ascendant,  be  his  significators. 
Then  if  ])  aspect  favourably  ©,  ? ,  or  lord  of  the  7th,  or 
the  lord  of  the  1st  aspect  the  lord  of  the  7th,  or  be  in  the 
7th,  or  the  lord  of  the  7th  be  in  the  ascendant,  or  if  most  of 
these  significators  be  in  fruitful  signs,  or  disposed  of  by  ? , 
the  man  shall  marry. 

Whether  a  Woman  shall  Marry  ? 

Follow  the  same  rules  as  above,  but,  instead  of  ])  and  ? , 
substitute  Q  and  (J.  If  c?  ^^^^  ^^  aspect  or  familiarity 
with  0,  it  is  a  strong  testimony  of  the  negative. 

The  Time  of  Marriage. 

The  degree  of  the  application  of  ])  to  0  or  $ ,  or  of  © 
to  (J,  or  the  lords  of  the  1st  and  7th  to  good  aspect,  or  to 
D  or  <f ,  if  with  strong  mutual  reception,  or  of  the  lord  of 
the  ascendant  to  the  cusp  of  the  ascendant,  or  the  lord  of 
the  7th  to  the  cusp  of  the  ascendant,  must  be  noticed.     And 


nnPEODTJCTION  TO  ASTBOLOGT.  191 

if  the  significators  be  swift,  and  the  testimonies  of  marriage 
strong  and  numerous,  moveable  signs  give  days,  weeks,  or 
months,  as  the  applying  planet  be  angular,  succeedent,  or 
cadent ;  and  common  signs,  in  like  way,  give  weeks,  months, 
or  years ;  and  fixed  signs  give,  in  like  manner,  months  or 
years. 

Of  Marriage  with  any  particular  Person  who  may  be  desired. 

If  the  lord  of  the  ascendant  or  }  (or  if  the  querent  be  a 
woman,  the  Q)  be  joined  to  the  lord  of  the  7th  in  any  of  his 
dignities  in  the  ascendant,  10th,  or  11th,  the  querent  shall 
i>btain  the  party  desired. 

If  both  significators  behold  each  other  by  -)(-  or  A  out  of 
the  ascendant  and  1 1th,  or  out  of  the  7th  and  9  th,  or  7  th 
and  5th,  and  no  frustration  or  retrogradation  of  the  chief 
significators  happen  before  the  good  aspect  be  completed,  the 
match  will  be  perfected,  if  the  querent  please.  For  we  always 
suppose  a  fbeedom  of  will  to  do  or  not  to  do.  And  if 
there  be  a  D  or  ^f  between  the  significators,  without  recep- 
tion, the  matter  will  come  to  nothing. 

A  n  aspect  with  reception  wiU  perfect  the  matter,  but  with 
some  difficulty.  If  no  reception  be,  there  may  be  hopes,  but 
no  grounds  to  judge  favourably* 

When  the  lord  of  the  ascendant  is  in  the  7th,  the  querent 
loves  best ;  and  when  the  lord  of  the  7th  is  in  the  ascendant, 
the  quesited  loves  best. 

The  match  may  be  brought  about,  though  there  be  no 
aspect  between  the  significators,  if  there  be  any  good  transla- 
tion of  light ;  more  especially  if  the  planet  who  translates  be 
a  fortune,  or  be  not  retrograde,  combust,  or  unfortunate,  or 
afflicted  by  l^  or  (J .  The  person  signified  may  be  known 
by  the  description  of  the  planet,  according  to  the  sign  he  is 
in,  and  the  way  he  is  aspected ;  and  the  quality  of  the  person. 


192  nfTBODUonoK  to  astbolooy. 

from  the  house  he  is  lord  of.  A  masculine  diurnal  planet 
shews  a  man,  and  a  feminine  nocturnal  planet  a  female,  or  an 
effeminate  man,  and  vice  tfersd, 

Testimomes  that  the  Marriage  ahaU  he  hindered. 

Observe  the  planet  who  receives  the  light  of  the  signi-* 
ficators.  If  he  be  a  heavy  planet,  and  have  the  n  or  ^f  of 
a  malefic,  or  be  cadent,  the  intended  match  shall  be  broken 
off,  though  at  present  never  so  feasible. 

Remark  which  party's  significator  is  strongest ;  that  party 
shall  first  manry  after  this  dissolution. 

If  the  significators  apply  by  an  evil  aspect  without  recep* 
tion,  or  if  there  be  no  good  aspect  between  the  luminaries, 
there  will  be  no  marriage ;  unless  the  lords  of  the  ascendant 
and  7th  be  placed  in  each  other's  houses,  and  the  other  signs 
be  very  decided  for  the  match. 

If  the  evil  f?  he  in  the  ascendant,  he  renders  the  querent 
cool,  and  but  little  inclined  to  marriage  ;  unless  he  be  very 
strong  or  well  aspected.  If  he  be  in  the  7th,  he  has  the 
same  effect  on  the  quesited.  He  is  generally  an  enemy  to 
marriage,  whereas  $  assists  marriage,  and  inclines  the  parties 
thereto. 

What  shali  be  the  Cause  of  the  Marriage  being  prevented  ? 

Consider  the  evil  planet  who  intercepts  his  rays  between 
the  significators,  and  hinders  the  marriage ;  and  observe  what 
house  he  is  lord  of,  and  where  he  is  situated.  If  he  be  lord 
of  the  2d,  want  of  money  will  be  objected  to  the  querent,  or 
he  may  fear  to  marry  from  lack  of  means. 

The  lord  of  the  3d  denotes  that  it  will  be  caused  by  the 
querent's  kindred  or  neighbours,  or  by  means  of  some  short 
journey. 

The  lord  of  the  4th  shews  that  his  father  will  not  agree* 


INTBODTJCTIOK:  to   ASTEOLOGr.  193 

or  it  may  (especially  if  a  feminine  planet)  be  the  mother  of 
the  quesited ;  or  it  may  be  for  want  of  some  settlement  of 
houses  or  lands^  &c. 

The  lord  of  the  5th  causes  obstacles  by  means  of  children^ 
or  by  the  querent  having  a  character  for  loose  living,  &c. 

The  6th  denotes  sickness  in  the  querent,  or  opposition  by 
some  relation  of  his  father,  or  by  means  of  servants,  or  some 
private  enemy  af  the  quesited. 

The  lord  of  the  7th,  or  a  planet  therein,  denotes  a  public 
enemy  of  the  querent,  or  a  lawsuit,  or  a  rival. 

The  8th  denotes  a  lack  of  money  on  the  part  of  the  que- 
sited ;  or,  if  other  testimonies  concur,  it  may  be  that  the 
querent's  death  may  intervene  to  prevent  the  match. 

The  9th,  in  like  manner,  shews  opposition  by  the  relations 
of  the  quesited,  or  the  interference  of  some  lawyer  or  priest, 
or  that  the  querent  may  go  a  long  journey  or  voyage,  and  so 
the  match  be  hindered. 

The  10th  and  its  lord  shew  the  father  of  the  quesited,  or 
the  mother  of  the  querent,  or  some  person  having  authority 
over  the  querent. 

If  it  be  the  1 1th  house  or  its  lord,  then  the  Mends  of  both 
parties  dislike  the  match  ;  or  those  who  first  introduced  the 
parties,  or  endeavoured  to  bring  it  about,  will  now  try  to  dis- 
solve the  connexion. 

If  it  be  by  the  lord  of  the  12th,  or  by  a  planet  therein, 
there  is  some  under-hand  dealing  or  secret  enmity  to  the 
querent.  The  affair  shall  be  much  retarded ;  but  the  querent 
shall  never  know  by  whom ;  or  some  private  scandal  will  do 
much  wrong,  and  quite  break  off  the  matter. 

In  the  same  manner  that  you  may  thus  learn  who  will 
oppose  the  querent,  you  may  ascertain  who  wiU  assist  him  in 
his  dedres.  And  by  varying  the  houses,  you  may  know  the 
persons  who  will  aid  or  hinder  the  quesited. 

o 


194  IKTBODUCnON  TO  ASTBOLOGT. 


To  deaeribe  the  Person  amd  Qualities  of  the  future  Wife  or 
Husband, 

For  the  man,  observe  the  planet  the  ])  is  nearest  in  aspect 
with  and  applying  ;  as  if  with  $ «  say  she  k  fair,  slender,  and 
pleasant.  And  according  &»  that  planet  is  found  in  any  of 
the  twelve  signs,  describe  her  person  ;  and  as  itis  aspectedand 
dignified,  her  qualities ;  observing  ako  the  sign  on  the  7th 
house.  And  if  there  be  any  planets  in  the  7th,  take  that 
planet  nearest  the  cusp ;  unless  Ji  aspect  a  planet  there,  then 
take  that  planet.  For  a  woman,  judge  by  the  planet  0  applies 
to,  in  like  manner ;  asifQbein-J^orAto  ^,heis  grave 
and  laborious ;  if  1/,  honest;  if  (J,  violent;  if  ?,  fond  of 
pleasure  and  agreeable  ;  if  $ ,  active  and  industrious  ;  and 
if  ]jj[,  strange  and  eccentric.  If  Q  and  }^  are  applying  to  Q 
or  (f ,  there  will  be  contention  and  discord. 

Whether  the  future  Wife  or  Husband  shall  be  rich  or  not  ? 

Observe  the  lord  of  the  8th  and  planets  therein.  If  ]) 
apply  by  good  aspect  to  the  lord  of  the  8th,  or  good  planets 
be  there,  or  the  lord  of  the  8th  have  a  good  aspect  to  the 
querent's  0,  or  other  significators  of  property,  the  future 
wife  or  husband  will  be  rich.  If  evil  planets  be  in  the  8th, 
or  its  lord  afflict  the  J  or  ©,  the  querent  wiU  gain  little  by 
marriage.  And  if  \  and  $  be  both  in  the  8th,  he  gains 
nothing ;  and  though  the  party  may  have  property,  the  que- 
rent will  be  cheated  of  it,  or  lose  it  in  some  manner.  The 
persons  or  means  by  which  the  property  will  be  injured,  may 
be  discovered  by  observing  what  houses  the  afflicting  planets 
are  lords  of  for  the  persons,  and  what  houses  they  are  placed 
in  for  the  means  ;  as  $ ,  lord  of  the  8th,  being  in  the  9thy 
and  throwing  a  Q  to  0,  might  denote  a  lawsuit  respecting 
the  future  wife  or  husband's  property. 


INTEODirOTTOir  TO  ABTB0L06Y.  195 

Whether  the  Marriage  he  legitimate  or  not  ? 

If  the  significators  of  either  party  be  afflicted  by  Tj  or  (J , 
or  joined  to  3  >  it  denotes  some  dispute  about  the  marriage  ; 
and  if  other  testimonies  agree,  a  lawsuit  may  be  the  conse- 
quence. 

How  the  Parties  shall  agree  after  Marriage  ^ 

If  the  figure  promise  marriage,  observe  whether  the  lords 
of  the  ascendant  and  7th  are  in  good  aspect ;  or  if  the  ]) 
behold  with  good  aspect  the  planet  disposing  of  her  by  house 
or  exaltation,  and  the  luminaries  be  in  good  aspect,  they  will 
agree. 

If  the  lords  of  the  ascendant  and  7th  be  in  Q  or  <f ,  or 
the  ])  be  afflicted,  and  behold  the  ascendant  by  ill  aspect, 
or  *2,  cJ,  or  8,  be  in  the  ascendant,  or  7th,  they  will  Uve 
unhappily.  If  the  ill  planets,  or  8,  be  in  the  1st,  the  querent 
is  to  blame ;  and  if  it  be  (?,  is  given  to  quarrel,  or  be  loose 
in  conduct,  according  to  the  sign ;  and  if  they  be  in  the  7th, 
it  is  the  quesited.  And  judge  the  same  way  according  as  the 
significator  of  the  1st  or  7th  be  afflicted.  The  ])  in  her  fall, 
or  D  or  jP  of  ^2  or  (;? ,  or  any  retrograde  planet,  and  at  the 
same  time  throwing  any  aspect  to  the  ascendant,  it  is  the  man 
who  brings  on  disputes,  &c.  If  the  O  do  the  same,  under 
the  same  circumstances,  it  is  the  woman. 

The  lord  of  the  7th  angular,  and  the  more  weighty  planet, 
the  quesited  will  strive  for  mastery ;  and  if  neither  the  lord 
of  the  ascendant  nor  7th  be  in  angles,  then  note  the  weightier 
planet,  for  he  points  out  the  party  who  will  rule. .  If  $  be 
afflicted,  it  is  worse  for  the  man ;  and  if  O)  ^or  the  woman. 
The  ])  afflicted,  is  evil  for  both.  The  lights  in  evil  aspect 
shew  discord. 

o2 


196  ITS^TKOBtrCTION   TO  ASTBOLOGT. 

The  Cause  of  Contention, 

If  the  afflicting  planet  be  lord  of  the  3d,  and  be  in  the  Ut 
or  7th,  he  denotes  quarrels,  or  injuries  by  neighbours  or  kin- 
dred. If  it  be  an  infortune  who  afflicts,  and  he  be  in  the 
1 0th,  it  shews  continual  brawls.  If  he  be  in  the  4th,  a  divorce 
or  willingness  thereto ;  or  some  hindrance  in  the  dowry  or 
fortune  of  the  female.  Evil  planets  in  the  10th  or  4th  lead 
also  to  contention  by  means  of  the  parents  of  the  parties.  If 
])  behold  the  ascendant,  and  be  unfortunate,  it  denotes  brawl- 
ing, separation,  or  dishonest  living.  And  if  there  be  no  appli- 
cation between  the  planet  the  ])  separates  from  and  that  one 
to  which  she  applies,  there  will  be  continual  contention.  If 
D  aspect  eviUy,  or  be  in  o'  ^^^  ^  or  (J ,  one  of  them  shall 
die  shortly,  or  have  some  misfortune ;  if  in  the  8th  or  12th, 
(and  she  void  of  course),  they  meet  troubles,  grief,  and  sick- 
ness; and  if  in  angles,  long  disagreements;  and  probably 
separation,  if  in  a  fixed  sign.  If  this  be  in  the  10th,  and  a 
masculine  sign,  the  man  is  the  chief  sufferer ;  if  in  the  4th, 
and  a  feminine  sign,  the  woman. 

The  Cause  of  Happiness, 

The  ))  in  ^  or  A  of  good  planets,  shews  gifts  or  beneiits 
by  friends ;  if  in  D,  by  the  dead.  If  ])  be  in  c5  with  good 
planets,  by  their  own  conduct  or  industry. 

Arabic  Aphorisms  not  to  be  trusted  to,  unless  the  other 
Testimonies  concur. 

The  woman  who  departs  from  or  loses  her  husband  when  ]) 
is  in  the  last  IS'*  of  / ,  shall  never  return  or  marry. 

The  man  who  shall  engage  to  marry  when  D  is  in  the  first 
12**  of  Vf,  shall  lose  his  betrothed  before  marriage,  or  die 
within  six  months,  or  live  in  discord  with  her. 


rHTTEODUOTIOir   TO  A8TBOLOGT.  197 

From  what  Part  a  Person  shall  Marry  9 

If  the  lord  of  the  7th  be  in  the  9th,  the  querent  shall  marry 
a  stranger.  If  the  lords  of  the  Ist  and  7th  be  in  one  quarter 
of  heayen,  or  in  one  house  or  sign,  the  person  will  marry  one 
iiear  to  their  own  residence.  Consider  the  sign  of  the  7th, 
the  sign  and  quarter  of  heaven  the  lord  of  the  7th  is  in ;  and 
judge  by  the  majority  of  testimonies  firom  what  direction  the 
querent  shall  marry ;  as  if  most  of  the  testimonies  be  southern, 
the  south,  &c.  Mix  the  sign  and  the  quarter  of  heaven,  pre- 
ferring the  former. 

Which  of  the  two  shall  be  most  honourable  in  Connexions^  ^c. 

If  the  lord  of  the  ascendant  be  angular,  and  the  lord  of  the 
7th  succeedent,  the  querent  is  best  connected,  and  vice  versd. 
In  like  manner  you  may  judge  of  any  two  individuals.  A 
more  assured  way  is,  by  observing  which  of  the  two  signi- 
ficators  is  the  most  powerful  in  dignities.  You  may  combine 
the  two  systems. 

Whether  a  Lady  have  a  Lover  besides  the  Querent  ? 

If  there  be  any  planet  in  the  7th,  (if  it  be  not  lord  of  the 
7th),  she  has  one  of  the  description  of  that  planet.  The  lord 
of  the  7th,  or  0  joined  to  (J,  she  has  a  lover  with  whom  she 
is  fiimiliar ;  but,  (unless  other  and  very  evil  testimonies  ac- 
cord), not  improperly.  The  lord  of  the  7th  void  of  course, 
or  with  3  >  or  if  no  planet  be  in  the  7th,  judge  that  she  has 
none :  and  if  the  lord  of  the  7th  aspect  only  the  lord  of  the 
ascendant,  judge  the  same. 

If  either  the  lord  of  the  7th,  or  the  0  be  jmned  to  the  lord 
of  the  triplicity  then  ascending,  and  0  separate  from  the 


198  iKTBODircnoN  to  astbologt. 

lord  of  the  ascendant,  it  seems  that  she  has  some  Mend  that 
she  loves  hesides  the  querent. 

The  lord  of  the  7ih,  or  the  ©,  or  both,  separating  from 
any  other  planet  but  the  lord  of  the  ascendant,  and  he  not 
separated  above  three  degrees,  the  lady  did  love  another,  but 
she  has  now  left  him.  If  the  lord  of  the  7th  be  with  Q ,  she 
is  blameless ;  unless  there  be  another  planet  in  (j  with  them, 
and  then  she  is  not.  And  if  it  be  3 ,  she  is  faulty  in  her 
desires  and  affections ;  and  if  evil  testimonies  concur,  such 
as  aspects  of  (^,  or  the  c(  be  in  IT^,  it  may  be  feared  in  acts 
also. 

If  the  O,  or  lord  of  the  7th,  be  in  cf  with  (J,  and  Q  be 
there,  she  loves  a  martial  man,  yet  he  cannot  prevail  on  her 
entirely.  If  8  be  there,  she  is  sore  pressed  to  comply.  If 
they  be  near,  or  within  very  few  degrees,  the  gentleman  re- 
sides near  her  house ;  and  if  in  the  same  degree,  he  is  in  the 
house,  if  it  be  a  fixed  sign  ;  or  frequently  visits  the  house,  if 
it  be  a  moveable  or  common  sign. 

If  O,  or  lord  of  the  7th,  separate  from  <J,  she  had  for- 
merly a  lover,  but  now  they  have  forsaken  each  other.  If  O 
be  lord  of  the  7th,  and  be  in  (5  with  (J  or  1/  in  any  sign 
whatever,  the  lady  has  loved  or  does  love  a  person  described 
by  (^  or  It^  ;  and  he  has  rank  as  an  officer,  gentleman,  or 
clergyman.  And  if  there  be  mutual  reception,  they  still  love 
one  another,  and  many  acts  of  kindness  pass  between  them. 

If  the  O  or  lord  of  the  7th  be  joined  to  ^ ,  the  lover  is 
a  young  clerk  or  merchant ;  lawyer  or  writer ;  a  witty,  nimble 
fellow.  His  age  may  be  judged  by  the  number  of  degrees  $ 
is  in  the  sign. 

If  the  lord  of  the  7th  be  joined  to  $  with  reception,  (and 
it  be  a  female  who  is  inquired  of,)  then  she  cares  Httle  for  the 
men ;  but  is  fond  of  female  society,  is  rather  free  in  her  lan- 
guage, but  not  naturally  vicious.     If  it  be  a  male  who  is  the 


INTBODUCnOK  TO  ASTKOLOOT.  199 

quesited,  he  k  found  much  in  female  company,  and  is  partial 
to  such  an  one  as  $  may  descrihe>  according  to  the  sign  she 
is  in.  If  the  aspect  he  -J^  or  A  and  with  mutual  reception, 
the  lady  is  partial  to  him ;  but  if  the  ])  or  lord  of  the  7th 
dispose  not  of  ? ,  she  cares  not  for  him,  unless  the  aspect  be 
very  close  and  in  angles.  And  if  the  aspect  be  evil,  there  is 
no  mutual  regard,  without  there  be  very  strong  reception. 

The  lord  of  the  7th  joined  to  J? ,  she  loves,  (or  did  love  if 
they  separate),  an  elderly  person,  or  farmer,  &c. 

The  lord  of  the  7th  joined  to  ©,  she  loves  some  person  of 
consequence,  according  to  her  rank  in  life  ;  and  if  with  mu-t 
tual  reception,  he  may  do  what  he  please  with  her.  If  they 
separate,  or  there  be  no  reception,  the  feehng  k  passed  away 
or  was  never  mutual. 

If  other  planets  aspect  Q  ^^d  the  lord  of  the  7th,  especi- 
ally Ij  or  § ,  she  has  other  admirers,  &c. 

If  the  lord  of  the  7th  aspect  ]) ,  or  the  ])  be  in  the  7th, 
especially  if  they  be  then  in  aspect,  or  (;^  be  in  aspect  with  $ , 
she  is  given  to  change  and  acts  discreditably,  yielding  up  her 
affections  upon  slight  solicitation. 

Generally,  you  may  consider  that  if  <J  be  in  the  7th,  un- 
less he  be  in  his  own  house,  the  lady  has  a  lover.  If  F^ ,  she 
loves  one,  but  there  is  no  familiarity  between  them ;  if  1/  be 
there,  she  is  honest ;  if  $ ,  she  is  giddy  and  merry,  and  is 
thought  to  be  wanton,  but  is  not ;  if  $ ,  she  had  a  friend,  but 
has  not  now ;  and  if  }) ,  she  has  not  yet,  but  wiU  have  more 
than  one.  If  Q  or  Q  be  there,  she  is  virtuous  and  honour- 
able, and  has  no  lover  other  than  the  querent.  Q  denotes 
discreditable  desires  at  least. 

JFhether  a  Gentleman  have  a  Lover  besides  the  Querent  ? 

You  may  judge  this  question  exactly  by  the  rules  for  judg- 
ing of  a  lady,  if  you  substitute  the  ])  for  the  Q  and  $  for 


200  INTEODUCTIOK  TO  ASTB0L0G7. 

(f .     You  may  in  like  way  judge  o£  friends  by  taking  the  1 1th 
for  the  7th. 

TFhether  a  Damsel  be  virtuous  or  not  ? 

Behold  the  lord  of  the  7th^  the  cusp  of  the  7th»  and  the 
O ;  and  if  they  be  in  fixed  signs  and  well  aspected^  you  may 
judge  that  she  is  correct.  If  (J  be  in  i^  and  it^  descend,  she 
is  suspected,  but  yet  is  honest.  If  tt|,  descend  and  ^  therein, 
it  is  suspicious  ;  and  if  there  be  a  moveable  sign  on  the  7th, 
or  the  O  and  (;^  be  in  common  or  moveable  signs,  and  be  ill 
aspected ;  and  if  ^  and  $  be  in  ill  aspect,  or  the  Q  or  ]) 
behold  Si  and  the  evil  stars  aspect  them  from  fixed  signs, 
there  is  great  reason  to  doubt.  Yet  if  there  be  any  good 
aspect  to  either  the  7th  or  its  lord,  (J^,  or  Q,  it  is  not  safe  to 
judge  the  lady  to^be  unchaste,  though  she  may  have  been 
much  tempted.  The  student  will  do  well  to  avoid  a  positive 
judgment  unfavourable  on  this  head,  unless  all  the  testimo- 
nies are  decided. 

If  there  be  great  reason  to  doubt,  then  observe  whether  ]) 
be  in  the  last  face  of  n,  or  in  a  moveable  sign,  and  in  the  5th 
house,  and  the  lord  of  the  5th  in  the  ascendant  or  7th,  and  in 
a  moveable  sign,  and  either  of  them  in  aspect  to  (5^  ;  or  the 
lords  of  the  5th  and  7th  in  <5  in  one  sign.  If  all  these,  or 
nearly  all,  concur,  you  may  be  more  confident  that  the  lady  is 
faulty.  , 

Whether  the  Child  conceived  is  the  Child  of  him  who  is  the 
reputed  Father? 

Observe  the  lord  of  the  ascendant,  and  the  ]) ,  who  signify 
the  querent;  then  observe  the  sign  of  the  11th,  and  its  lord, 
which  signify  the  issue  in  conception.  If  these  significators 
behold  one  another  by  ^  or  A>  with  reception  or  not,  the 
conception  is  legitimate,  viz.,  the  child  of  its  supposed  flather. 


nTTBODiroTioir  to  astboloot.  201 

If  they  aspect  each  other  by  Q  or  ^f  wiih  reception,  and  per- 
fect aspect :  or  the  lord  of  the  ascendant  or  ([  be  in  the  dth, 
or  the  lord  of  the  5th  in  the  ascendant,  without  the  evil  aspect 
of  the  infortunes,  or  if  one  of  the  fortunes  behold  the  cusp 
of  the  5th  or  its  lord,  then  also  is  the  child  begotten  by  its 
reputed  &ther.  But  if  none  of  these  things  be,  and  ^  ,  cJ, 
or  § ,  behold  the  5th  or  lord  thereof,  there  may  be  just  sus- 
picion that  the  child  is  conceived  in  adultery,  or  is  not  the 
child  oi  the  querent. 

Whether  a  Woman  living /ram  her  Husband  shall  ever  return 
to  him,  or  be  restored  to  Favour  ? 

lUs  question  will  equally  resolve  a  doubt  concerning  a 
mistress  or  person  beloved. 

If  the  woman  herself  propose  the  question,  consider  the 
lord  of  the  7th,  (for  the  7th  is  ever  given  to  the  banished  or 
expelled  party;)  and  if  the  lord  of  the  7th  behold  the  ascen- 
dant with  a  perfect  aspect,  and  the  lord  of  the  ascendant  be- 
hoU  the  7th,  or  its  lord,  without  doubt  she  shall  again  come 
into  favour.  If  the  lord  of  the  7th  do  not  behold  the  ascen- 
dant, but  another  planet,  who  is  not  afflicted,  behold  the  as- 
cendant, the  woman  shall  be  received  again  through  some  per- 
son who  shall  interpose  his  friendship  with  the  husband  or 
friend.  If  none  of  these  things  be,  observe  J  and  ^ ;  and 
if  })  be  above  the  earth,  and  ^  behold  the  ascendant  with  •X- 
or  A>  she  shall  return  quietly,  and  without  much  trouble. 

If  ])  be  under  the  earth  and  ^  above,  and  behold  the  as- 
cendant with  ^  or  A>  she  shall  return,  but  with  trouble  and 
dekys,  and  with  much  publicity.  If  ([  aspect  the  ascendant 
favourably,  and  be  not  afflicted,  she  shall  return,  but  with 
solicitation.  If  ^  decrease  in  light,  but  be  not  near  the 
beams  of  0,  and  behold  the  ascendant,  she  will  return  easily 
•nd  speedily. 


202  IKTBOBUCnON  TO  ASTBOLOGT. 

If  (J^  be  retrograde,  and  hasten  to  aspect  with  ([ ,  she  will 
of  her  own  accord  return ;  but  if  (J^  and  ([  ,  or  the  lords  of 
the  1st  and  7th,  separate  from  good  aspect,  they  have  no  mn- 
toal  desire  to  return,  nor  will  the  kdy  much  respect  the  gen- 
tleman for  the  future., 

OF    RUNAWAY    SERVANTS,    CATTLE    STRAYED,   AND 
THINGS    LOST. 

The  significator  of  the  thing  missing  is  the  ([ ;  wherefore 
if  you  find  ([  applying  to  the  lord  of  the  ascendant,  or  to  the 
lord  of  the  12th,  (being  herself  in  the  ascendant,)  or  to  the 
lord  of  the  house  of  the  ([ ,  the  thing  missing  shall  be  found 
again.  But  if  ([  apply  to  none  of  these,  nor  be  in  the  as- 
cendant or  2d,  the  thing  lost  shall  not  be  found.'*'  If  the 
lord  of  the  house  of  ([  be  in  the  3d,  or  in  -J^  to  the  ascen- 
dant, there  is  some  hope  of  finding  the  thing  again  during 
that  aspect  with  the  degree  ascending.  Also,  if  he  separate 
{torn  the  lord  of  the  6th,  8th,  or  12th,  and  apply  by  any  as- 
pect to  the  cusp  of  the  2d,  or  behold  the  ([ ,  you  may  hope  to 
find  it.  But  if  there  be  contrary  indications  between  these, 
judge  the  reyerse. 

If  the  ([  be  aspected  well  by  both  fortunes,  the  thing  lost 
is  in  the  hands  of  some  trusty  person ;  and  if  C  or  one  of 
the  fortunes  behold  the  ascenduit,  he  will  restore  it  to  the 
owner. 

The  Place  where  the  Thing  lost  is. 

This  is  shewn  by  ([ ,  according  to  the  sign  she  is  in  ;  for  if 
the  sign  be  eastern,  it  is  east ;  and  if  west,  it  is  western,  &c. 
Observe  also  the  place  of  C  in  the  figure ;  for  if  she  be  in 
the  ascendant,  it  is  east,  &c.,  but  prefer  the  sign.  If  the  lord 
of  the  house  of  ([  be  in  human  signs,  (n>  tg^,  rs:,  or  the  first 

*  This  rule  principally  applies  to  cattle  strayed. 


nTTEODUOTIOK  TO  ABTBOLOeT.  203 

half  of  ^  ),  it  is  in  a  place  where  men  frequent.  If  in  signs 
of  small  cattle,  as  r  or  yf ,  it  is  where  they  are  found.  If 
])  he  in  a  fiery  sign,  it  is  where  fire  is ;  if  in  a  watery  sign, 
where  water  is,  &c.  If  })  he  in  the  same  quarter  as  the  lord 
of  the  ascendant,  and  there  he  not  more  than  30*"  between 
them,  the  thing  lost  is  in  the  house  of  the  owner,  or  about  it ; 
if  they  be  above  30*"  and  less  than  70*"  apart,  it  is  in  the  town 
▼here  he  resides ;  but  if  they  be  not  in  one  quarter,  it  is  far 
from  the  owner. 

How  the  Thing  was  lost. 

Ohserre  from  what  planet  the  lord  of  the  ascendant  last 
separated.  If  from  ^ ,  it  was  through  forgetfulness  of  the 
owner ;  or  through  cold  or  illness  which  afflicted  the  loser, 
especially  if  T2  be  retrograde.  If  from  If.,  it  was  through 
some  abstinence,  or  ordering  of  laws,  or  by  excess  of  care  in 
managing  affairs,  or  putting  too  much  trust  in  the  person  by 
whom  it  was  carried  away  or  mislaid.  If  frt>m  ^ ,  or  the 
lord  of  the  ascendant  be  in  the  house  of  c^,  it  was  lost 
through  fear  or  some  sudden  passion,  provoking  the  loser  to 
anger ;  or  by  fire,  or  by  enmity,  or  upon  some  quarrel.  If 
from  O,  by  means  of  the  king  or  some  gentleman,  or  the 
master  of  the  family,  or  by  hunting  or  pastime.  If  from  $ , 
or  in  her  house,  by  drinking,  cards,'  &c.,  or  making  merry  in 
a  tavern,  &c.,  or  by  singing  or  dallying  with  women.  If 
from  5 ,  by  writing,  letters,  messages,  or  going  a  message, 
&c.  If  from  ]) ,  by  too  frequent  use,  or  shewing  the  thing 
lost,  or  making  it  too  common ;  or  some  messenger,  widow, 
or  serrant  lost  the  same. 

If  it  be  an  Animaly  and  you  would  know  whether  it  be  stolen 
or  not  ? 

If  you  find  the  lord  of  the  house  of  })  separating  from  any 


204  nnnoDTTonoN  to  astbologt. 

planet,  say  that  it  went  away  of  its  own  accord.  If  that  lord 
be  not  separating,  but  another  planet  be  separating  from  him, 
say  that  some  person  took  it  away.  If  the  lord  of  the  house 
of  })  be  in  neither  of  these  cases,  look  to  the  lord  of  the  2d 
house,  and  judge  by  him  in  the  same  way.  And  if  you  find 
no  separation  of  either  of  these  two  lords,  say  that  the  animal 
is  still  in  or  near  its  place,  and  is  not  gone  away. 

Whether  it  be  dead  ? 

Observe  the  }) ;  and  if  you  find  her  in  application  to  the 
lord  of  the  8th  house  from  her,  say  it  is  dead.  But  if  you 
find  no  such  testimony,  observe  her  dispositor ;  and  if  you 
find  him  applying  to  the  lord  of  the  8th  house  from  the 
Moon,  say  likewise  that  it  is  dead,  or  will  shortly  die ;  but 
if  in  neither  of  these  you  find  application,  take  the  lord  of 
the  8th  house  of  the  figure  in  the  same  way  ;  and  if  neither 
)  nor  her  dispositor  apply  to  it,  then  the  animal  is  not  dead. 

Whether  the  Thing  missing  he  stolen  ? 

If  the  significator  of  the  thief,  (usually  the  lord  of  the  7th, 
unless  there  be  any  peregrine  planet  in  an  angle),  be  found 
in  the  ascendant,  or  disposing  of  the  }),  or  })  disposing  of 
him,  or  the  lord  of  the  ascendant  be  disposed  of  by  him  or 
dispose  of  him,  or  unless  he  apply  to  the  })  or  lord  of  the  1st 
or  2d,  or  ©,  or  its  lord  by  ci,  Q,  or  <f ,  or  some  planet  be 
in  the  ascendant,  and  be  in  Q  or  ^f  to  the  significator  of  the 
thief,  the  thing  is  not  stolen.  Generally  any  iU  aspect  of  any 
evil  planet,  or  the  lord  of  the  7th  to  the  ascendant  or  2d  house 
or  their  lords,  or  ])  or  0,  or  their  lords,  denote  that  the  thing 
is  stolen. 

Whether  a  Thing  lost  shall  he  found? 

If  ])  apply  to  the  lords  of  the  ascendant  or  2d,  or  to  her 


nTTEODirOTION  TO  ASTROLOGY.  205 

dispositor,  it  shall  be  found.  )  in  the  ascendant,  or  her 
dispositor  in  -)f  or  A  thereto,  give  hopes  ;  the  dispositor  of 
])  sqNurating  from  the  lord  of  the  6th,  8th,  or  12th,  and 
applying  to  the  lord  of  the  ascendant  or  casp  of  the  2d,  give 
hopes  also ;  and  if  })  be  in  aspect  to  her  dispositor,  it  is 
good.  But  ])  afficted  by  the  lords  of  the  6th,  8th,  or  12th, 
it  is  in  the  hands  of  an  evil  person,  who  will  not  pfgrt  with  it ; 
especially  if  an  infortune  afflict  the  ascendant  or  its  lord.  }) 
in  A  to  the  ascendant,  its  lord  or  Q,  or  in  the  ascendant,  or 
G  there,  unless  in  rfl  or  rrs,  it  shall  be  found. 

TJ^  Kind  of  Place  a  Thing  lost  is  in  ? 

If  D  be  in  a  human  sign,*  it  is  in  a  place  where  men  fre- 
quent; and  if  in  a  brutal  sign  (t,  Q,  iZ>  Vf  j  and  the  last 
haK  of  f  ),  the  thing  is  where  animals  frequent.  If  D  be  in 
fiery  signs,  it  is  where  fire  is  or  has  been,  or  near  a  fire,  or 
on  hills  or  high  ground ;  if  in  watery  signs,  where  water  is 
or  has  been  ;t  if  in  airy  signs,  where  many  windows  are,  or 
open  places,  garrets,  &c. ;  if  in  earthy  signs,  in  an  earthy 
place,  where  houses  are  built  of  mud,  clay,  &c.,  and  in  brick- 
fields. The  } ,  or  her  dispositor,  in  a  moveable  sign,  shews 
a  place  newly  peopled,  or  a  house  newly  built,  or  where  there 
are  bills  and  dales  :  if  in  a  fixed  sign,  4n  a  level  plain  country ; 
if  in  a  common  sign,  in  a  place  of  much  water,  according  to 
the  nature  of  the  thing  missing.  Also  U,  irp,  f,  K>  shew, 
if  it  be  not  living  things,  within  the  house  ;  but  if  cattle,  &c., 
they  shew  ditches,  pits,  and  among  rushes,  or  in  a  market- 

*  The  haman  sigiis  are  iii  iV»  and  s»,  also  the  first  half  of  f .  If  the 
agnificator  of  any  person  or  >  be  in  one  of  these  signs,  they  are  humane 
ind  dvil  in  their  manners. 

t  In  this  case  S  generally  denotes  pure  or  running  water ;  n\.  foul 
water,  and  filthy  liquids,  oils,  dyes,  &c. ;  and  x  standing  waters,  spirituous 
fiquora,  wmes,  &c. 


206  IKTBODUCTION  TO  ABTBOLOGY. 

place.  (5 i  SI,  VI,  TXi,  shew  that  the  things  are  laid  low  or 
hid  in  the  earth,  or  near  walls,  in  hollow  trees,  &c.  t,  s  , 
£^,  Vf ,  shew  high  places,  roofs,  ceiling,  &c.,  hut  watery  signs 
denote  about  the  foundations  of  houses,  or  cellars,  if  water  be 
there. 

Of  Animals  missing. 

If  the  lord  of  the  6th  be  in  the  6th,  they  are  small  animals  ; 
if  the  lord  of  the  12th  be  in  the  12th,  they  are  large.  If  the 
lord  of  the  6th  be  in  the  12th,  they  are  in  pound ;  and  if  in 
a  fiery  sign,  locked  up.  If  ])  be  in  common  signs,  they  are 
in  rushy  grounds  ;  if  in  an  angle,  they  are  in  enclosed  ground  ; 
if  in  a  succeedent,  they  are  near  enclosures  ;  if  in  a  cadent 
house,  they  are  on  commons.  If  in  watery  signs  or  ;::::,  near 
fish-ponds  or  other  waters ;  and  if  in  the  last  moiety  of  Vf , 
they  are  near  ships,  or  on  shipboard,  or  near  some  wood  or 
timber-yard. 

Whether  it  shall  be  restored? 

The  })  aspecting  ll  or  $ ,  it  is  in  the  hands  of  an  honest 
man,  who  will  restore  it.  If  1/  or  $  have  any  aspect  to  the 
ascendant,  or  })  apply  to  the  ascendant,  it  will  be  restored ; 
and  if  ])  be  in  the  ascendant,  it  is  restored  without  trouble 
or  pain.  The  lord  of  the  7th,  or  12th  in  the  12th  house,  the 
fugitive  is  imprisoned. 

If  the  ])  be  within  SO'*  of  the  lord  of  the  1st,  the  thing  is 
with  or  near  the  loser ;  if  })  be  more  than  30°  off  the  lord  of 
the  1  st,  it  is  far  off. 

If  it  be  animals,  and  the  lord  of  the  6th,  (or  if  large  cattle 
the  12th,)  be  fortunate  by  the  good  aspects  of  ?  or  7/,  or 
they  be  found  in  the  2d,  5th,  or  1 1th,  the  animals  will  be  had 
again.  The  same  if  the  lord  of  the  term  in  which  ])  is,  or 
the  lord  of  the  cusp  of  the  4th  be  with  the  lord  of  the  as- 


rErrBOBTTcnoir  to  astbology.  207 

cendant,  or  the  lord  of  the  6th  or  12th  be  in  A  to  Q  out  of 
allies. 

Of  a  Fugitive^  and  whether  he  shall  he  found  or  return  9 

The  lord  of  the  7th  in  the  ascendant,  he  will  return  of  his 
own  accord.*  If  ])  separate  from  the  lord  of  the  ascendant, 
and  be  joined  immediately  to  the  lord  or  cusp  of  the  7th, 
news  will  shortly  be  brought  of  him.  The  lord  of  the  7th 
combust,  he  shall  be  found  against  his  will.  The  ])  afflicted 
by  ^f ,  ^2  >  (f  >  or  S ,  or  a  retrograde  planet,  he  shall  be  found 
or  return,  after  much  suffering.  ])  separating  from  1/  or  $ , 
he  shall  quickly  come  back ;  and  if  she  aspect  her  own  house 
by  -}f  o^  A)  he  will  return  or  shall  be  heard  of  within  a  very 
few  days. 

The  lord  of  the  7th  aspecting  an  infortune  from  the  7tli, 
the  querent  will  discover  the  quesited  with  some  person,  to 
whom  he  must  give  money  before  he  can  have  him  back.  If 
the  lord  of  the  7th  be  retrograde,  it  is  a  testimony  of  his 
return. 

OP  THEFTS. 

The  ascendant  is  for  the  querent,  and  its  lord  for  him  that 
has  lost  the  goods ;  and  it  signifies  the  place  from  whence 
they  were  taken. 

The  7th  house  and  its  lord,  or  the  peregrine  planet  in  an 
angle,  signify  the  thief. 

The  2d  house,  its  lord,  and  the  J) ,  signify  the  things  lost 
or  stolen ;  and  the  4th  house,  and  its  lord,  shew  the  place 
where  they  are  conveyed  to,  and  then  are. 

The  aspects  of  O  ^^^  1>>  the  lords  of  the  1st  and  2d,  and 

*  If  a  aemmt,  take  the  lord  of  the  6th  in  all  these  cases ;  and  if  the 
queienf  8  child,  the  lord  of  the  5th,  &c. 


208  DTTEODTrCTIOK  TO  ASTEOLOGT. 

the  dispositor  of  the  }) ,  by  application  to  each  other,  shall 

shew  whether  they  will  be  had  again  or  not. 

If  the  lord  of  the  2d  and  the  })  be  in  the  7th,  and  the 

lord  of  the  7th  behold  them  both  by  -)(•  or  A  (though  the 

aspect  be  several  degrees  distant),  then  are  the  goods  taken 

away  by  some  one,  and  not  merely  lost. 

If  ])  be  lady  of  the  2d,  and  going  to  (5  of  the  lord  of  the 

7th,  then  has  tiie  party  mislain  it ;  and  the  thing  is  neither 

lost  nor  stolen. 

If  })  be  lady  of  the  ascendant,  and  in  the  4th,  and  the 

lord  of  the  2d  be  in  the  7th  or  8th  in  -X*  or  A  of  J ,  the 

thing  is  not  stolen,  but  taken  away  in  jest. 
If  ])  be  lady  of  the  ascendant,  and  be  in  it,  and  ©  lord  of 

the  2d  in  the  10th,  with  the  lord  of  the  7th,  and  the  lord  of  the 

rth  D   }) ,  then  are  the  goods  stolen  and  taken  away.     If  ]) 
be  in  the  3d,  and  in  Q  to  the  lord  of  the  7th,  and  the  lord 
of  the  2d  be  in  the  7th,  it  was  first  taken  in  jest,  but  is  now 
stolen,  and  will  be  hard  to  recover,  unless  0  and  )  aspect 
the  ascendant. 

If  J)  be  lady  of  the  5th,  and  in  Yf  >  and  ?  lady  of  the  2d 
in  the  10th,  and  ])  in  ^f  to  the  lord  of  the  7th,  then  has  the 
party  lost  the  goods  as  he  went  by  the  way,  or  left  them  in 
some  place.  If  })  be  in  25  in  the  8th,  and  the  lord  of  the 
2d  in  the  5th,  and  neither  of  them  behold  the  lord  of  the  ^th, 
and  he  be  in  the  7th,  the  goods  are  taken  away  in  jest  by  the 
master  of  the  house,  and  he  will  deny  it.  If  })  be  in  the  4th 
in  J*  to  its  lord,  and  the  lord  of  the  2d  in  the  12th  in  -)f  to 
the  lord  of  the  7th,  then  has  somebody  taken  away  the  things 
in  jest.  If  })  be  in  the  house  of  the  lord  of  the  7th,  and  be 
in  the  12th,  not  beholding  the  lord  of  the  7th,  and  the  lord  of 
the  2d  be  in  the  6th,  then  are  the  goods  removed  in  jest ;  and 
if,  in  this  case,  the  lord  of  the  2d  did  last  separate  from  the 
ruler  of  the  ]) ,  they  will  scarcely  be  had  again.     If  the  }) 


iNTBODircnoisr  to  astbologt.  209 

separate  from  the  lord  of  the  2d  by  Q,  they  are  taken  away 
and  stolen ;  and  the  same,  if  the  ) ,  being  lady  of  the  2d, 
separate  from  the  lord  of  the  house  wherein  she  is. 

If  the  lord  of  the  ascendant  separate  from  1/ ,  (he  not  being 
lord  of  the  7th,  or  peregrine  in  an  angle),  o)r  from  the  lord  of 
the  2d,  the  querent  has  lain  it  down  and  forgotten  it,  and  so 
it  was  lost;  but,  when  both  the  lords  of  the  1st  and  2d 
separate  from  7/ ,  this  is  surer.  If  (in  such  case)  the  lord  of 
the  2d,  or  7/ ,  separate  from  the  lord  of  the  ascendant,  then 
did  the  party  lose  ''the  goods  by  the  way  as  he  went,  or  in 
some  place  where  he  was,  or  they  feU  out  of  his  pocket  acci- 
dentally, and  they  are  neither  found  nor  stolen.  But  if  there 
be  none  of  these  separations,  see  if  the  peregrine  planet,  or 
lord  of  the  7th  apply  to  11,  or  the  lord  of  the  2d ;  then,  if 
they  do,  the  goods  are  absolutely  stolen.  If  the  lord  of  the 
2d,  or  11,  apply  to  the  significator  of  the  thief,  he  came 
easily  by  them,  and  did  not  come  with  intent  to  steal ;  but, 
seeing  the  thing  unprotected,  he  was  tempted  to  steal. 

If  the  significator  of  the  thief  aspect  the  lord  of  the  1st  or 
2d,  or  the  cusp  of  the  2d,  or  0,  or  ]) ,  or  their  dispositor, 
or  the  planet  in  whose  term  J  is,  or  if  he  be  in  the  ascend- 
ant, it  is  stolen  ;  but,  if  there  be  no  evil  aspect  to  any  of 
these,  it  is  not  stolen. 

0/  the  Age  of  the  Thief, 

Guido  Bonatus  says,  that  if  the  thief  s  significator  be  ^ , 
he  is  very  young ;  if  ? ,  rather  older,  but  yet  a  young  female ; 
i  shews  him  of  fall  age  ;  1/  of  middle  age,  and  ^  ,  elderly. 
If  the  O  be  his  significator,  and  be  between  the  ascendant 
and  10th,  he  is  young,  and  so  increasing  in  age  until  he  come 
to  the  angle  of  the  earth.  If  the  ])  shew  the  thief,  his  age 
will  correspond  to  her  age  ;  and  in  all  cases  judge  also  by  the 
position  the  thief  s  significator  has  reached  in  the  sign  where 

p 


210  nrrBODVonoif  to  astbologt. 

he  is  found.  If  he  be  just  entered  the  sign,  quite  young ;  if 
in  the  middle  of  the  sign,  of  middle  age ;  and  if  towards  the 
end  of  the  sign,  elderly ;  and  if  ^  aspect  him  any  way,  it 
adds  to  his  age.  Oriental  planets  denote  also  younger  per- 
sons, and  occidental  planets  elderly  persons.  You  must  con- 
sider all  the  testimonies  before  you  judge  the  thief  s  age. 

Whether  the  Thief  be  Male  or  Female  ? 

The  significator  of  the  thief  being  masculine,  and  in  a  ma»- 
culine  sign,  and  the  })  in  a  masculine  sign,  it  is  a  male ;  et  e 
contrd.  The  angles  of  the  figure  masculine  shew  a  man ; 
and  if  feminine,  a  woman.  If  $  or  the  ])  be  the  signifi- 
cator,  or  ^ ,  when  aspecting  them,  it  is  a  female ;  ^ ,  1/  >  S» 
O,  and  $  aspecting  them,  a  male. 

Whether  one  Thief  or  more  ? 

If  the  significator  be  in  a  fixed  sign,  it  denotes  one  only ; 
]f  he  be  in  double-bodied  signs,  it  denotes  more  than  one, 
especially  if  there  be  more  than  one  planet  in  the  sign,  and 
they  peregrine.  Also,  when  Q  and  ])  are  in  angles,  and  in 
D  aspect,  it  shews  more  than  one.  If  the  significator  be  in 
s>  in.>  or  K  >  it  is  a  testimony  of  there  being  more  than  one  ; 
the  angles  being  moveable,  the  same.  The  ])  in  the  ascend- 
ant, and  in  a  double-bodied  sign,  shews  more  than  one.  And 
if  the  significator  be  in  aspect  with  more  than  one  planet, 
unless  he  be  in  a  fixed  sign,  it  shews  plurality. 

Of  the  Colour^  of  the  Thief  a  Clothes. 

This  must  be  judged  in  a  general  manner ;  and  by  the 
colours  of  the  signs  and  houses  of  the  significator,  and  the 
planets  ruling  them.  Thus,  f^  is  black ;  %  green,  spotted, 
or  ash ;  (J  red ;  0  tawny,  or  saffron,  or  sandy ;  and  if  you 
tnix  the  colours  according  to  the  signs  and  planets,  &c.,  you 


DraBODrcnoir  to  asteologt.  211 

will  judge  very  nearly  the  general  colour  of  the  thief  s  clothes. 
Thus,  fj  and  1/,  mixed,  give  dark  green,  or  green  spotted  with 
black ;  T^  and  (J,  a  dark  reddish  brown,  or  tawny ;  Jj  and 
O,  a  blackish  orange,  and  shining ;  ^2  ^^^^  i  >  ^  whitish 
grey ;  ^  and  $ ,  a  black  blue  ;  ^2  &^d  })  >  &  ^^^P  nisset,  or 
grey ;  7/  and  (J ,  a  tawny,  light  spotted ;  1/  and  0,  a  deep, 
shining  red;  HI  and  ?,  a  greenish  grey;  1/  and  5?>  * 
spotted  green ;  1/  and  },  a  high-coloured  green  ;  (J  and  ©, 
a  deep  red,  or  scarlet ;  ^  and  $ ,  light  red,  or  crimson  ;  (} 
and  5  >  a  tawny  red,  or  brick  colour ;  (J  and  ]) ,  a  light  red, 
glistening. 

You  must  observe,  that  if  the  signifier  be  fj  >  iii  liw  own 
house,  Vf ,  and  not  in  close  aspect  with  any  other  planet,  the 
thief  will  be  dressed  all  in  black ;  because  both  sign  and 
planet  rule  that  colour.  But  if  he  were  in  the  1st  house, 
which  rules  white,  he  would  have  some  tc^AtV^  about  his  person. 
Also,  if  it  were  (J,  who  rules  red,  and  he  were  found  in  11\, 
which  rules  brown,  he  would  denote  a  rusty,  dirty,  reddish 
brown ;  but  if  he  were  in  St,  which  rules  red  and  green,  and 
11  were  in  aspect,  there  would  be  much  green,  as  well  as  red, 
about  the  dress ;  and  so  of  the  others. 

The  relation  the  Thief  bears  to  the  Owner. 

The  lord  of  the  7th,  or  significator  of  the  thief,  being  in 
the  ascendant,  it  is  one  well  known  to  the  querent,  or  one 
who  frequents  his  house  ;  and  is  in  no  way  suspected. 

If  the  significator  of  the  thief  be  in  the  2d,  it  is  one  of 
the  household,  or  an  acquaintance ;  but  if  in  a  feminine  sign, 
it  may  be  the  querent's  wife  or  maid-servant ;  and  it  is  in  the 
loser's  power,  and  may  be  recovered  by  money. 

If  he  be  in  the  3d,  it  is  one  of  his  near  kindred  or  neigh- 
bours; or  some  messenger,  or  other  person,  often  in  his 
«ght. 


212  urTEODiroTioir  to  astboloot. 

If  in  the  4th,  it  is  his  father,  or  some  elderly  person,  or 
one  who  resides  in  the  house,  &c.,  of  his  father ;  or  he  is  a 
lahoarer  or  farm-servant. 

If  in  the  fifth,  it  is  his  son  or  daughter,  or  one  of  the  near 
relations  of  his  brother  or  sister,  or  near  neighbour ;  or  one 
of  the  household  of  his  father,  or  his  kept  mistress,  or  some 
one  connected  with  taverns,  theatres,  &c. 

If  he  be  in  the  6th,  it  is  a  servant,  or  the  querent's  father's 
relation ;  or  it  is  some  person  in  bad  health. 

If  he  be  in  the  7th,  it  may  be  his  own  wife  or  lover,  or 
some  female  who  has  been  suspected  of  having  connexion 
with  the  querent :  or  it  is  some  person  with  whom  he  deals 
publicly,  or  one  who  is  his  open  enemy. 

If  in  the  8th,  it  is  a  stranger ;  yet  it  is  likely  to  be  one 
who  is,  or  has  been,  at  times  employed  about  the  house,  such 
as  an  occasional  gardener,  or  charwoman,  washerwoman,  &c. 

If  in  the  9th,  it  is  some  traveller  or  vagrant,  or  some  person 
employed  about  churches,  &c.  ;  or  a  person  in  connexion 
with  some  jailor,  or  master  of  a  workhouse,  &c. 

If  in  the  10th,  it  is  a  person  of  respectable  circumstancdb, 
or  some  master  tradesman,  &c. ;  one  not  necessitated  to  turn 
thief ;  and,  generally,  a  person  who  lodged  in  the  house,  or 
visited  it  frequently  when  the  thing  was  taken. 

If  in  the  11th,  a  fiiend,  or  one  who  is  trusted,  and  has 
done  the  querent  some  service;  or  one  connected  with  a 
neighbouring  clergyman,  or  the  household  of  the  querent's 
mother. 

If  in  the  12th  house,  it  is  a  stranger,  or  some  poor,  com- 
mon thief  or  beggar ;  a  person  in  miserable  circumstances, 
who  partly  lives  by  thieving  or  thief  taking. 

Other  Particulars  of  the  Thief, 
If  the  thief's  significator  be  in  the  end  of  a  sign,  or  apply- 


INTEODTrOTIOK  TO  ASTEOLOGT.  213 

ing  to  a  planet  iu  the  3d  or  9th,  he  is  going  off ;  and  if  it  be 
a  superior  planet,  and  leaving  a  sign,  he  is  undoubtedly  leav- 
ing his  house  or  lodgings,  &c. 

If  his  significator  be  in  an  angle,  he  is  still  in  the  town ; 
if  succeedent,  he  is  not  far  off;  but  if  cadent,  he  is  far  gone. 

If  it  be  in  an  angle,  he  is  in  a  house ;  and  if  )  be  in  an 
angle,  in  his  own  house,  &c. ;  if  in  a  succeedent,  in  a  field  or 
enclosure  ;  and  if  ])  be  succeedent,  it  is  his  own,  or  where 
he  resides  ;  and  if  in  a  cadent  house,  he  is  on  a  common  or 
open  place,  and  if  })  be  cadent,  it  belongs  to  the  town,  &c. 
where  he  lives. 

If  the  lord  of  the  ascendant  and  the  significator  of  the 
thief  be  together,  the  thief  is  with  the  querent.  And  if  the 
thief's  significator  be  in  the  ascendant,  the  thief  will  be  at  the 
querent's  house  before  the  querent.  But  if  the  significator 
be  in  the  7th,  he  is  hid  at  home,  and  dare  not  be  seen.  The 
direction  in  which  the  thief  lives  may  be  judged  by  the  sign 
and  quarter  in  which  the  significator  is. 

The  ])  denotes  also  the  door  of  the  thief's  house.  If  she 
be  in  a  fixed  sign,  the  house  has  but  one  door ;  if  in  a  move- 
able sign,  the  door  is  high  above  the  earth,  and  it  is  probable 
that  there  is  another  smaller  door.  If  ^  aspect  the  sign  of 
the  D ,  the  door  has  been  broken,  and  often  repaired,  or  is 
old  or  black.  If  ^  aspect  it,  the  gate  or  door  has  some 
mark  of  fire.  If  ^  and  ^  both  have  a  friendly  aspect  to 
the  sign  the  ])  is  in,  the  door  is  iron,  or  is  very  strong.  If  }) 
be  afiELicted,  it  is  broken  or  injured  ;  and  if  })  be  decreasing, 
and  near  ©,  the  gate,  &c.  opens  on  the  back  premises,  and 
there  is  no  front  door  to  the  street ;  if  she  increase,  and  is 
near  Q,  it  is  low  down,  and  there  is  a  step  to  descend  in 
entering.  But  if  ])  be  in  a  moveable  sign,  there  are  steps  up 
to  it. 


214  INTBODirOTIOK  TO  ASTEOLOGT. 

Whether  the  Goods  are  in  the  Hands  of  the  Thief? 

If  the  thiers  significator  be  in  aspect  to,  and  disposed  of 
by  another  planet,  they  are  not  in  his  hands  ;  otherwise  they 
are. 

The  Place  where  the  Goods  are. 

The  nature  of  the  place  is  judged  by  the  lord  of  the  4th 
house.  If  he  be  in  a  moveable  sign,  it  is  in  a  place  high 
above  the  ground ;  in  a  fixed  sign,  in  the  earth ;  and  in  a 
common  sign,  it  is  under  the  eaves  of  a  house,  &c.*  And 
you  must  judge  also  by  the  quality  of  the  sign  ;  as  T  shews 
a  place  where  small  cattle  are,  as  sheep,  hogs,  &c.  SI  shews 
a  place  of  animals  that  bite,  as  dogs,  foxes,  &c. ;  f:  a  place 
of  animals  that  are  ridden,  as  horses,  mules,  &c.,  and  their 
stables.  Q ,  irp,  and  Vf  shew  a  place  of  large  cattle,  as  0 
oxen,  kine,  &c. ;  trp  and  Yf  shew  camels,  mules,  asses,  &c. ; 
rtg  also  shews  bams  where  corn  is  kept,  and  a  place  about  the 
earth.  Yf  denotes  goats,  hogs,  &c. ;  n  shews  a  wall  or  par- 
tition in  a  house ;  £i:  a  high  part,  or  near  a  closet  or  little 
house ;  s:::  shews  near  a  door,  above  another  door  or  gate  in 
a  high  part ;  1T\,  shews  a  place  of  unclean  water ;  K  a  place 
always  moist.  But  if  the  J  be  in  the  same  sign  with  the  lord 
of  the  4th,  judge  by  her  more  than  him. 

In  what  Part  of  a  House  Things  lost,  stolen,  or  concealed 
may  be. 

If  the  thing  lost  be  in  the  house,  (whether  stolen  or  not), 
behold  the  lord  of  the  4th,  (or,  if  a  planet  be  in  the  4th, 
take  him  in  preference.) 

If  it  be  ^2 1  it  is  in  a  dark  or  secret  place  ;  and  if  he  be  in 

*  We  should  pay  more  attention  to  the  nature  of  the  aga,  as  fieiy, 
earthy,  &c. ;  and  judge  as  in  the  rules  for  things  mislaid. 


DrrBODTTCTIOir  TO  ASTBOLOOT.  215 

aspect  with  (^ ,  or  in  the  house  of  (5" ,  it  is  in  or  about  some 
dirty  place,  where  people  seldom  go,  a  privy,  &c. 

If  1/ ,  a  place  of  wood,  bushes,  &c. 

If  (^,  a  kitchen  or  place  where  fire  is  kept ;  if  aspected 
by  5 ,  a  shop. 

If  O,  the  hall,  dining-room,  or  chief  room  where  the  master 
frequents. 

If  $ ,  a  bed,  or  among  bed-clothes,  or  where  females  much 
frequent.     In  this  case  ^  would  shew  the  top  of  the  bed. 

If  $ ,  a  place  of  books,  pictures,  carving,  &c. ;  and  if  trp, 
where  com  is. 

If  ]) ,  it  is  in  a  pit,  cistern,  or  washing  place. 

Description  of  the  Hottse  or  Place  where  the  Things  are  that 
are  lost,  $•(?. 

The  O  describes  the  house,  and  also  its  front  entrance.  If 
he  be  in  an  airy  sign,  it  is  high,  &c.,  and  its  colour  may  be 
known  by  the  sign  and  house  he  is  in.  The  ([  describes  the 
cellar,  pump,  or  place  holding  the  water ;  as,  if  she  be  in 
rsi,  it  is  a  cistern,  high  above  the  ground,  &c. ;  if  IT)^, 
a  low  pit  or  pond  ;  if  tjp,  a  deep  well.  ?  shews  the  place 
of  mirth,  female  apartments,  &c.  S3  denotes  the  stairs 
or  ladder  to  cUmb  by,  &c.  3  describes  the  place  the  wood 
is  in,  or  the  animals  are  kept.  $  denotes  the  room,  &c. ; 
if  in  a  common  sign,  it  is  a  cupboard,  or  small  room 
within  another ;  if  in  a  fixed  sign,  it  shews  a  house  having 
BO  cellar,  or  a  single  chamber.  If  7/,  ?,  or  both,  be 
in  the  10th,  the  door  has  a  fair  appearance,  and  opening ; 
if  Ij  be  in  the  10th,  the  door  is  near  some  ditch,  pit,  or 
deep  place;  if  (J  be  there,  there  is  a  fire-place  near  the 
door,  or  place  for  killing  animals ;  if  ^  be  there,  near  the 
door  is  a  place  where  tools  or  instruments  are  kept ;  if  O 
be  there,  then  there  is  some  seat  or  porch  near  the  door ;  and 


216  IKTBOBUCTION  TO  ASTBOLOOT. 

if  )  be  in  the  10th,  there  is  near  the  entrance  a  door  to  go 
under  ground,  a  trap  or  cellar  door,  or  some  other  con- 
venience in  very  common  use.* 

The  Nature  of  the  Thing  stolen. 

This  is  judged  by  the  lord  of  the  2d  house.  ^  shews  lead, 
iron,  things  of  a  black  or  dark  blue  colour,  wool,  black  gar- 
ments, heavy  things,  earthy  materials,  agricultural  imple- 
ments, carts,  &c.  If.  oil,  honey,  silk,  fruit,  men's  clothes, 
merchandize,  horses,  &c.  ^  arms,  pepper,  brass,  red  clothes, 
red  wine,  and  red  things ;  generally  sharp-pointed,  cutting, 
and  hot  things,  horses  for  war,  &c.,  and  all  warlike  engines 
or  instruments.  Q  gold,  brass,  yellow  clothes,  diamonds, 
and  things  of  value.  ?  women's  dresses,  or  ornaments, 
such  as  rings,  ear-rings,  &c.,  white  cloth,  and  white  wine. 
5?  shews  money,  paper,  books,  pictures,  and  party-coloured 
dresses,  &c.,  and  scientific  instruments,  writing-desks,  &c. 
The  J)  all  common  commodities,  such  as  crockery,  &c.  cattle, 
poultry,  and  also  silver. 

Whether  the  Goods  shall  he  recovered  or  not. 

The  ])  in  the  7th,  aspecting  the  lord  of  the  7th  with  a  A  ; 
a  fortune  strong  in  the  ascendant ;  1/  in  the  2d  direct ;  in  ]) 
the  1 0th  in  a  A  to  a  planet  in  the  2d ;  })  in  the  2d  in  A  to 
the  lord  of  the  2d ;  0  and  }  going  to  A,  or  ©  and  ]) 
aspecting  the  cusp  of  the  2d  with  a  A  ;  or  the  lord  of  the 
2d  in  the  ascendant  or  4th,  well  aspected  by  application  ;  ])  in 
the  2d,  going  to  D  of  Q  ui  the  12th,  in  signs  of  short  ascen- 
sion :  all  these  are  signs  of  its  recovery. 

Also,  if  the  lords  of  the  term  and  house  of  the  )  be  both 

^  These  minute  particulars  may  be  found  useful  in  many  other  ques- 
tions, such  as  where  fugitives,  &c.  are ;  and  they  might  be  of  use  in  dis- 
covering criminals. 


USTEODUCnOS  TO  ASTBOLOGT.  217 

increajsing  in  light  and  motion,*  and  free  from  affliction,  it 
shall  he  recovered,  and  be  uninjured. 

Generally,  if  there  be  a  diminution  of  their  light  and  mo- 
tion, the  thing  is  already  partiy  destroyed.  If  there  be  good 
aspects  to  the  lords  or  cusps  of  the  ascendant,  or  2d,  or  to 
©  or  its  lord,  by  planets  in  angles,  it  will  soon  be  recovered. 

The  lord  of  the  8th  in  the  ascendant,  or  with  its  lord,  shews 
recovery ;  the  lord  of  the  7th  in  the  8th,  denies  it :  ^2 ,  J , 
or  3  in  the  ascendant,  or  2d,  shew  dividing  and  loss  of  the 
thing. 

The  lord  of  the  2d  in  the  ascendant  shews  recovery ;  and 
the  lord  of  the  1st  in  the  2d  the  same,  after  long  search.  If 
the  2d  or  its  lord  be  afflicted,  all  the  things  lost  shall  not  be 
recovered.  If  both  luminaries  be  under  the  earth,  it  is  a 
strong  testimony  against  recovery. 

If  both  O  and  })  aspect  the  ascendant,  the  thing  cannot 
be  lost,  but  will  shortly  be  discovered. 

Gf  the  Time  of  the  Thing  being  recovered. 

Observe  the  application  of  the  planets  that  signify  recovery, 
and  determine  the  number  of  days,  weeks,  or  months,  as  they 
may  be  in  moveable,  common,  or  fixed  signs,  in  angles,  sue- 
ceedents,  or  cadents.  And  if  the  signifiers  are  swift  in  mo- 
tion, it  hastens  the  recovery ;  if  slow,  it  retards. 

Of  the  Thief  9  Person, 

In  addition  to  the  planef  s  general  description  in  the  sign 
he  is  in,  observe  the  aspects  he  has,  and  take  all  these  into 
eonsideration.  Moreover,  if  the  significator  be  oriental,  and 
™  X2»  ^>  or  / ,  the  person  is  large  ;  if  occidental,  and  in  s, 
171,  ^^  K,  the  body  is  smaller.     If  the  planet  have  south 

*  This  means,  going  faster  than  they  were  the  preTious  day. 


218  IKTBODUCnOK  TO  ASTROLOGY. 

latitade,  be  is  nimble ;  if  in  north  latitude,  slow  in  bis  mo- 
tions. If  going  out  of  one  sign  into  anotber,  be  is  weak 
and  feeble.* 

*  h  shews  one  of  a  pale,  swarthy,  dark  complexion ;  hard,  rough 
skin ;  hairy  body ;  small,  leering  eyes ;  jaundiced  look ;  lean,  crooked,  or 
ill  made ;  beetle  browed ;  thin  beard ;  thick,  negro  lips ;  bow-legged,  or 
one  who  knocks  his  knees  or  ancles  one  against  the  other,  and  shuffles  in 
his  gait.  He  has  a  down  look,  his  eyes  always  on  the  earth ;  is  seldom 
free  from  cough  and  bad  breath.  He  is  crafty,  revengeful,  and  malicious ; 
dirty,  a  great  eater,  covetous,  and  seldom  rich. 

%  denotes  a  full  face,  white  and  red  mixed ;  full  eyes ;  good  make, 
light  beard,  but  this  depends  chiefly  on  the  sign ;  thick  hair,  good  teeth, 
but  some  defect  in  the  two  front  teeth ;  moderately  curling  hair.  If  in  a 
watery  sign,  fat  and  plump ;  in  an  earthy  sign,  large  make :  in  an  airy 
sign,  strong — a  person  who  bears  a  good  moral  character. 

^  denotes  a  full  face,  red  or  sunburnt ;  a  sharp,  fierce  countenance ; 
eyes  fiery  and  ferocious,  with  rather  a  yellow  tinge ;  hair  and  beard  red- 
dish ;  but  this  depends  on  the  sign,  unless  he  be  with  fixed  stars  of  his 
own  nature,  such  as  Aldeharan,  the  Liangs  Hearty  8fc»  In  earthy  signs  it 
is  a  sad  brown  ;  in  watery,  lighter  or  flaxen ;  in  airy,  curling  or  crisping ; 
in  fiery,  strong  and  wiry.  He  is  strong,  broad  shouldered,  proud,  scorn- 
ful, drunken,  and  debauched ;  with  a  mark  or  scar,  generally  in  the  face. 

0  denotes  a  round  full  face ;  sanguine  complexion ;  short  chin ;  curling 
hair ;  fair,  comely,  sometimes  swarthy  or  bronzed ;  bold,  ambitious,  vain, 
slow  of  speech ;  outwardly  decent,  but  secretly  vicious  and  lascivious. 

$  gives  a  fair,  round  face ;  full  or  large  eyes ;  red,  plump  lips,  the 
lower  larger  than  the  upper ;  black  eyelids,  smooth  brown  hair ;  person 
well-shaped  and  handsome ;  rather  short  than  tall ;  face  pleasing,  with 
smiles  and  dimples. 

$  middling  complexion ;  darkish  hair,  or  a  sad  brown ;  long  face ; 
high  forehead ;  black  or  grey  eyes ;  thin  beard  and  whiskers,  often  hardly 
any ;  slender,  small  legs ;  one  quick  in  walking,  and  full  of  talk  and 
business. 

})  a  round  face,  more  white  than  red ;  in  watery  signs,  fr^kled ;  and 
if  in  2p,  and  in  no  aspect  to  S  or  O,  very  pale  and  white,  or  wan — a 
person  generally  short  and  full ;  and  one  who  is  dull  aiid  heavy,  and  also 
very  vulgar  and  ill-mannered. 

N.B.  The  above  descriptions  are  partly  taken  from  Wibon's  Attroioffieai 
Dictionary  ;  a  very  useful  work  for  the  young  student. 


nrrEODTTCTIOJT  TO  ASTBOLOGT.  219 

Sigria  of  the  Thief  being  taken. 

If  the  lord  of  the  7th  (or  thiefs  significator)  be  in  the  Ist 
or  7th,  in  d  with  the  lord  of  the  ascendant,  or  a  retrograde 
planet.  If  the  })  separate  from  the  thief's  significator,  and 
apply  to  (5  of  the  lord  of  the  Ist ;  or  go  from  ci  of  the  lord 
of  the  Ist  to  him.  Or  if  ©  and  ])  be  in  cJ  with  him  ;  or  if 
be  be  going  to  combustion,  or  be  in  (j  with  an  infortune  in 
^e  7th.  He  is  captured  if  })  be  in  the  7th,  applying  to  D 
of  (J,  the  O,  or  5  ;  5  separating  from  D  of  ^  or  5  >  and 
applying  to  Q  of  ©,  or  separating  from  d  F? ,  and  going  to 
D  5?;  or  in  the  8th,  in  ^  <J,  or  in  the  7th,  going  to  the 
lord  of  the  8th. 

The  Thief  escapes. 

If  his  significator  be  in  aspect  with  a  fortune  ;  if  he  be  in 
aspect  to  7^  or  ?,  they  being  in  the  11th,  he  escapes  by 
friends ;  if  in  the  3d,  by  strangers,  or  by  law  quibbles,  &c. 

Op  Battle,    Wae,    Duels,    Pbize    Fights,    oe    otheb 
Contentions. 

The  lord  of  the  ascendant,  planets  therein,  and  }) ,  are  for 
tbe  querent  or  challenger,  or  him  who  attacks ;  the  7th  house, 
itfl  lord  and  planets  therein,  for  the  adversary.  Behold  whose 
ngnificators  are  most  angular,  best  dignified  and  aspected,  and 
expect  victory  for  that  party.  If  evil  planets  be  in  the  as- 
cendant, and  fortunes  in  the  7th,  the  adversary  shall  overcome, 
tad  vice  versd :  also  the  lord  of  the  7th,  in  the  ascendant, 
betokens  victory  to  the  querent,  and  vice  versd, 

Whether  any  one  shall  return  safe  from  War,  or  any  dan" 
gerous  Voyage,  fyc. 

The  lord  of  the  ascendant,  strong,  well  aspected,  and  his 


220  UTTBODUCTION  TO  ASTBOLOGT. 

dispositor  a  good  planet ;  good  planets  in  the  ascendant,  or 
aspecting  its  cusp,  are  all  good  testimonies ;  and  the  reverse 
are  evil.  If  the  lord  of  the  7th,  and  the  7th  house,  be  for- 
tunate, (though  the  first  be  not,)  the  party  returns,  though 
not  without  great  crosses  and  hinderances  ;  et  e  contra.  Ob- 
serve how  ])  is  disposed;  for  her  application  to  the  good 
planets  is  fortunate  ;  and  the  contrary.  Evil  planets  in  the 
8th  are  signs  of  fear  and  death  ;  ^  shews  bruises  and  hurts 
by  falls,  &c.,  and  losses ;  (J  denotes  wounds  by  weapons ;  8 , 
injuries  and  disgrace. 

If  an  evil  planet  be  with  the  lord  of  the  ascendant,  and  a 
good  one  in  the  ascendant,  he  will  suffer  great  loss  or  be  sorely 
wounded,  but  not  die. 

^2  in  the  1st,  or  with  its  lord,  shews  loss  to  the  querent 
by  one  whom  he  will  meet ;  Tj  in  the  Ist,  and  an  evil  planet 
with  its  lord,  he  shall  be  wounded  by  wood  or  stone ;  ^  shews 
wounds  by  fire  or  iron,  and  if  3  be  in  the  ascendant,  and  y> 
afilict  its  lord,  he  shall  receive  a  wound,  and  be  nearly  killed. 
It  is  evil  if  O  be  with  the  lord  of  the  7th,  or  be  in  the  8th. 

The  lord  of  the  ascendant  in  the  8th,  or  with  its  lord,  or 
the  lord  of  the  8th  in  the  ascendant,  denotes  the  querent's 
death.  And  the  lord  of  the  7th  in  the  second,  or  with  its 
lord,  shews  the  death  of  the  adversary. 

If  the  lord  of  the  7th  be  strong,  and  have  good  aspects 
from  the  10th,  or  its  lord,  the  querent  will  gain  honour.  And 
if  the  cusp  of  the  2d  and  its  lord,  and  0  or  its  lord,  be  for- 
tunate, then  he  gains  money  by  the  war,  &c. 

In  the  same  manner  as  the  8th  house  and  its  lord  shew 
death,  the  1 2th  and  its  lord  denote  imprisonment. 

And  if  the  question  concern  the  general  result  of  a  war  or 
expedition,  it  must  be  judged  on  the  same  principles. 


ETTBODIJCTIOir  TO  1.STBOLOOT.  221 

Of  Partnership, 

If  good  planets  be  in  the  1st  and  7th,  the  partnership  shall 
be  and  do  weD.  And  if  the  lord  of  the  7th  be  strong,  and 
in  fixed  signs,  it  shall  endure.  If  the  two  lords  agree  in  as- 
pects, and  by  mutual  reception,  the  partners  will  accord  well 
together.  But  if  they  disagree,  the  fault  will  be  with  that 
party  who  has  Ijj[,  F? ,  (J,  or  8  in  their  house. 

The  significators  of  substance  will  shew  the  means  of  each 
party ;  and  as  they  may  be  about  to  receive  good  or  ill  as- 
pects, will  they  thrive  or  lose  by  the  concern.  The  8th,  its 
lord,  and  planets  there,  are  for  the  quesited's  property. 

If  ])  separate  from  one  fortune,  and  apply  to  the  other, 
they  will  neither  of  them  gain  much  by  the  concern.  If  she 
leave  a  good  planet  and  apply  to  an  ill,  they  begin  well  but 
end  ill :  and  if  she  separate  from  one  evil  planet,  and  apply 
to  another,  they  begin  with  complaining,  continue  with  jea- 
lousy, and  end  with  lawsuits.  An  evil  planet,  or  8  in  the 
2d,  the  querent  gains  but  Httle,  will  be  cheated,  or  get  into 
debt:  if  they  be  in  the  8th,  judge  this  of  the  quesited.  And 
if  llie  lord  of  the  7th  or  8th,  D  or  ^f  0,  the  querent  may 
hope  but  little  gain  from  his  partner,  who  will  embezzle  the 
common  stock,  &c. 

Of  removing  from  Place  to  Place, 

The  lord  of  the  ascendant  and  planets  therein  stronger  than 
the  7th,  and  planets  there,  it  is  better  to  remain.  If  there  be 
a  benefic  in  the  7th  or  ^ ,  and  especially  if  })  separate  from 
an  infortune,  remove  ;  an  evil  planet  there,  or  the  lord  of  the 
Ist  or  ))  leaving  a  benefic,  remain. 

The  8th  house  shews  the  property  of  the  querent  in  the 
place  he  desires  to  remove  to :  if  evil  planets  be  there,  it  is 
better  to  remain.   {See  also  p,  141) 


222  DJTEODirOTIOK  TO  ASTROLOOT. 

Of  Lawsuits,  and  their  Success. 

The  lord  of  the  ascendant  or  ])  joined  to  the  lord  of  the 
7th,  or  in  •)(•  or  A>  with  reception  mutual,  the  parties  will 
easily  agree  together,  and  make  up  the  quarrel.  But  if  one 
dispose  of  the  other,  and  the  reception  be  not  mutual,  they 
will  agree  without  a  lawsuit,  but  not  without  the  interceding 
of  friends.  If  they  be  in  good  aspect  without,  or  in  evil  as- 
pect with,  reception,  they  will  accord,  after  one  effort  at  law. 
That  party  shall  be  most  ready  to  agree  whose  significator  is 
disposed  of  by  the  other.  If  they  hasten  to  a  mutual  good 
aspect,  and  the  lord  of  the  9th  or  10th  interpose  an  evil  as- 
pect, they  wiU  be  led  to  dispute  by  a  lawyer  or  by  the  judge. 
If  there  be  any  translation  of  light  by  the  ]) ,  or  other  planet, 
between  the  two  significators,  it  denotes  that  they  will  be  re- 
conciled by  a  third  person,  described  by  that  planet. 

Observe  whether  the  lord  of  the  ascendant  or  7th  be  strong- 
est or  most  powerful,  and  best  aspected ;  for  that  one  shall 
gain  the  day.  If  they  compound,  the  first  motion  thereto 
comes  from  the  lighter  planet,  who  is  disposed  of  by  the 
other.  If  the  lord  of  the  ascendant  be  in  the  7th,  the  adver- 
sary will  overcome,  and  vice  versd.  If  either  lord  of  the  1st 
or  7th  be  retrograde,  he  shews  that  the  party  does  not  believe 
that  he  has  right  on  his  side ;  nor  wiU  he  stand  to  it  very 
stoutly. 

If  the  lord  of  the  10th,  which  denotes  the  judffe,  be  direct, 
he  will  proceed  fairly,  and  endeavour  to  settle  the  cause 
speedily.  But  if  he  be  retrograde,  the  judge  will  not  act 
fairly  according  to  law,  nor  strive  to  terminate  the  cause.  If 
the  lord  of  the  10th  throw  an  evil  aspect  to  either  significator, 
the  judge  will  be  against  that  party. 

If  O  or  })  be  in  the  ascendant,  or  aspect  its  lord,  or  be  in 
either  of  his  houses,  it  is  a  good  testimony  for  the  querent ; 


UnJBODirCTION  TO   ASTROLOOT.  223 

and  if,  on  the  contrary,  the  lord  of  the  7th  be  so  situated,  it 
is  in  favour  of  the  quesited.  If  the  lord  of  the  10th  receive 
both  significators,  the  judge  will  settle  the  matter  before  it 
comes  to  full  trial. 

If  the  lord  of  the  10th  be  in  the  10th,  in  his  own  house, 
the  judge  will  do  justice,  and  decide  the  case  with  honour  to 
himself,  unless  the  lord  of  the  10th  be  l^  .  If  the  lord  of  the 
10th  be  only  in  his  own  term,  or  triplicity,  the  judge  will  de- 
termine the  cause,  but  he  is  indifferent  about  it.  If  a  planet 
having  no  dignities,  or  not  in  reception  with  the  lord  of  the 
10th,  be  in  the  10th,  the  parties  will  not  be  satisfied  with  that 
jadge  or  court.  If  ^  be  judge,  he  will  not  decide  aright ; 
and  if  11,  ?,  ©,  J,  or  J  be  in  any  aspect  to  him  but  ^, 
there  will  be  an  ill  report  against  him,  of  which  he  will  clear 
himself;  but  if  it  be  ^f ,  he  will  have  a  hard  report  against 
him,  which  will  long  continue.  And  if  (J  cf  *®  ^  >  the  judge 
will  be  sorely  defamed  5  and  if  also  ©  D  ^ ,  he  may  be 
disgraced. 

In  deciding  as  to  the  result,  observe  well  the  lord  of  the 
4th,  and  bow  he  aspects  the  significators,  or  the  lords  of  their 
substance ;  also  the  application  of  the  ]) .  If  both  signifi- 
cators aspect  one  planet,  some  person  will  intercede  between 
them.  K  the  ascendant  and  7th  be  in  fixed  signs,  both  par- 
ties are  resolutely  bent  on  the  suit ;  if  common  signs,  they 
will  continue  it  long  also,  and  remove  the  cause  out  of  one 
court  into  another ;  and  if  moveable  signs,  they  are  not  very 
determined,  and  will  soon  bring  it  to  an  end. 

Tliat  party  who  is  weakest,  and  most  afflicted  by  the  infor- 
tunes,  shall  receive  most  prejudice  by  the  contention. 

0/ making  Purchases  or  Sales, 

If  3  he  joined  with  the  lord  of  the  7thj  the  querent  may 
make  the  purchase.    The  lighter  planet  of  the  two  houses 


224  INTBODUCnOK  TO  ASTBOLOGT. 

(Ist  and  7th)  will  be  the  occasion  of  the  sale.  Judge  the  na- 
ture of  the  commodity  by  the  house  by  which  it  is  governed ; 
as  the  4th  for  a  house,  the  1 2th  for  large  cattle,  the  9tb  for 
books,  &c.,  the  lOth  for  merchandize. 

If  infortunes  be  in  the  7th,  be  cautious  of  the  seller ;  he 
will  try  to  trick  the  purchaser.  The  fourth  house  will  shew 
the  final  result :  but  if  })  be  void  of  course,  there  may  be 
many  meetings,  &c.,  but  scarcely  any  bargain  concluded. 

Whether  a  City,  Town,  Castle,  ^c,  besieged,  shall  be  taken 
or  not. 

The  ascendant  and  its  lord  are  for  the  querent  and  for  the 
besiegers ;  the  4th  signifies  the  place  besieged  or  to  be  be- 
sieged, and  the  lord  of  the  4th  the  governor ;  the  5th  and 
planets  therein  the  ammunition,  soldiers,  &c.  in  the  place. 

If  you  find  the  lord  of  the  first  strong  and  fortunate,  or 
joined  to  the  lord  of  the  4th  in  the  ascendant,  or  with  the  ]) 
or  lord  of  the  10th,  or  any  where  but  in  the  6th,  8th,  or  12th, 
and  the  lord  of  the  1st  dispose  of  the  lord  of  the  4th ;  or  if 
})  dispose  him,  and  be  not  disposed  of  by  him,  it  is  an  ail- 
ment that  the  place  shall  be  taken.  Or  if  the  lord  of  the  4th 
be  in  such  houses  as  behold  not  the  4th,  and  be  with  infor- 
tunes, and  weak,  it  will  be  taken,  and  the  governor  may  be 
wounded.  If  infortunes  be  in  the  4th,  without  some  strong 
aspect  of  the  fortunes,  it  will  be  taken.  If  3  be  in  the  4th, 
it  will  be  taken,  and  some  parties  will  try  to  betray  it,  or 
some  principal  work  or  fort  therein :  the  sign  will  shew  which 
part  of  the  town,  &c.  In  this  case  the  governor  does  not  ex- 
pect to  preserve  it. 

If  the  lord  of  the  4th  be  in  the  4th,  strong  and  not  afflicted, 
neither  retrograde  nor  combust,  nor  besieged  of  the  infor- 
tunes, or  if  the  lord  of  the  7th  be  there,  free  from  all  impedi- 
ments,  or  if  1/,   ?,  or  Q  be  therein,  and  no  reception  be- 


IKTBODUOTIOir  TO  ASTBOLOGT.  225 

tween  the  lords  of  the  1st  and  4tli,  then  shall  not  the  eity, 
&c.  be  taken ;  and  if  there  be  both  a  fortune  andinfortune  in 
the  4th^  it  shall  not  be  taken,  if  the  fortune  be  the  nearest  to 
the  cusp,  or  first  transit  that  degree ;  and  this  more  certainly, 
if  the  lord  ai  the  ascendant  be  weak  or  unfortunate^  espe- 
cially if  a  light  planet.  But  if  the  lord  of  the  ascendant  be 
strong,  or  fortune  therein,  and  the  i  behold  the  cusp  of  the 
4th,  it  shall  be  surprised  or  surrendered.  An  infortune  in 
the  2d,  or  its  lord,  &c.  afflicted,  the  querent  lacks  means  to 
pursue  the  siege  with  vigour. 

Of  Commanders  in  Armies :  and  whether  they  shall  be  vior 
torums  or  not. 

If  there  be  an  infortune  in  the  ascendant,  it  shews  that  the 
querent  has  no  great  justice  on  his  part,  or  cause  of  quarrel. 
And  if  an  infortune  D  the  ascendant,  the  party  shewn  by  it 
(yiz.  that  for  which  the  querent  asks)  will  not  manage  their 
affidrs  well  or  discreetly.  If  a  good  planet  be  in  the  ascend- 
ant, or  aspect  it  by  -}(•  or  A>  it  shews  a  good  cause,  and  that 
it  will  be  well  managed. 

An  evil  star  in  the  2d,  and  haying  no  dignities  therein,  or 
aspecting  its  cusp  by  Q  aspect,  denotes  that  either  there  will 
be  no  war,  or  that  the  querent  wiU  gain  nothing  by  it ;  a 
benefic  testifies  the  reverse.  U  11  (or  ($  well  dignified)  be 
in  the  3d,  the  querent's  party  will  have  good  warlike  stores, 
&c.,  and  will  consist  of  good,  brave  soldiers ;  but  if  ^J"  be 
there,  ill  dignified,  they  vnll  be  bad  characters,  and  ill  dis- 
ciplined. 

If  an  infortune  be  in  the  4th,  the  c^paign  vnll  be  held  in 
a  difficult  country.  If  the  sign  describe  a  hilly  country,  it 
will  ofier  obstacles  by  wooda  and  bad  roads ;  and  if  it  shew  a 
moist  country^  it  will  be  unfit  for  mihtary  occupations,  by 

Q 


226  INTBODtrOTION  TO  A8TE0L0GT. 

reason  of  riyera,  marshes,  &c. ;  and  so  the  army  can  do  no 
good  service. 

If  (J  be  in  the  5th,  well  dignified,  or  a  fortune  aspect  it, 
the  army  on  the  querent's  side  will  be  good  soldiers,  and  well 
behaved  ;  but  Ij  there,  or  8 ,  denotes  the  contrary. 

If  a  fortune  or  3  be  in  the  6th,  the  ammunition  train, 
artillery,  &c.  wiU  be  good  ;  if  (J  be  there,  the  horses  wiU  be 
fierce,  wild  and  unbroken.  If  f?  be  there  (without  dignities', 
they  will  be  unserviceable,  slow,  and  worn  out. 

A  fortune  in  the  7th,  the  arms  and  instruments  of  war  will 
be  plentiful  and  serviceable.  If  an  infortune  be  there,  or 
afflicting  it  by  evil  aspect,  they  will  be  the  reverse.  In  the 
former  case,  the  enemy  will  be  brave  and  no  fool,  and  will 
fight  fair ;  in  the  latter  case,  the  enemy  will  fight  rather  by 
craft  and  treachery,  than  fair  manhood. 

A  fortune  in  the  8th,  shews  that  there  will  not  be  many 
men  slain  on  the  querent's  side;  nor  any  very  important 
battle  be  fought.  If  ^  be  there,  there  wiU  be  much  plun- 
dering and  destruction,  and  many  prisoners  be  taken ;  also 
much  death  by  sickness  and  want,  &c.  If  (J  be  there,  then 
expect  much  bloodshed. 

A  fortune  in  or  aspecting  the  9th,  the  enemy  is  well  situ- 
ated,  and  will  strive  to  gain  by  false  reports,  alarms,  &c. ;  he 
is  poUtic.  If  an  infortune,  he  will  wear  himself  out  by 
marching,  and  will  be  often  deceived  by  false  intelligence ; 
and  if  a  fortune  be  in  the  3d  at  the  same  time,  the  querent's 
side  will  gain  by  this  conduct  of  the  enemy. 

A  fortune  in  the  10th,  or  aspecting  its  cusp  by  ^  or  A» 
shews  that  the  commanding  officer  is  expert  and  capable. 
But  if  fj ,  e ,  or  ^ ,  (unfortunate),  be  there,  or  afflict  the 
10th  house  by  a>  the  commander  on  the  querent's  side  will 
be  extremely  incapable  and  unworthy,  and  meet  only  dis- 
grace. , 


.nn-BorroTioir  to  astboloqy.  227 

A  fortune  or  g^  in  the  1  Ith,  shews  the  officers  are  clever, 
and  understand  their  duty,  and  will  well  support  the  com- 
mander ;  but  an  infortune,  or  Q ,  the  reverse. 

If  a  fortune  (or  ^  well  dignified)  be  in  the  12th,  it  denotes 
that  the  enemy  is  well  prepared,  and  will  defend  themselves 
well.  An  infortune  there,  shews  that  they  are  weak  and  wiU 
disagree  among  themselves,  and  fear  their  own  forces.  If  g 
be  in  the  1 2th,  the  querent  may  expect  treachery ;  and  if  the 
lord  of  the  1 2th  be  there,  and  have  any  dignities  in  the  as- 
cendant, the  querent's  side  wiU  suffer  by  desertion. 

Whether  the  two  Armies  will  Fight  or  not. 

Observe  the  ascendant  and  its  lord,  the  })  and  lord  of  the 
7th,  if  they  be  cJ  in  any  angle  they  will  fight.  If  the  lords  of 
the  1st  and  7th  be  not  in  d,  but  are  in  Q  or  ^f  from  angles, 
they  will  engage ;  or  if  there  be  any  planet  which  transfers 
the  hght  of  one  to  the  other  by  D  or  ^f ,  there  will  be  a  fight, 
if  there  be  no  reception  between  them.  But  if  there  be  none 
of  these,  and  the  heavier  planet  receive  the  hghter,  there  will 
be  no  serious  engagement. 

Whether  the  Querent  have  any  Adversaries  or  open  Enemies, 

If  the  question  regard  not  any  relation,  take  the  7th  house 
for  any  open  enemy,  if  any  person  be  specially  considered ; 
bat  if  it  be  simply  as  to  enemies  in  general,  look  to  the  12th 
house.  If  it  be  as  to  some  individual  enemy,  see  whether  the 
lord  of  the  7th,  or  planet  therein,  throw  a  D  or  ^f  to  the 
lord  of  the  ascendant,  or  ]) ;  this  denotes  that  the  quesited  is 
envious  or  inimical.  If  the  aspect  apply,  the  enmity  will  in- 
crease ;  and  if  the  enemy's  significator  dispose  of  the  querent's 
without  reception  mutual,  the  querent  will  suffer  by  him  :  the 
manner  how  may  be  learned  by  the  house  he  is  in.     If  the 

q2 


228  .  uttboductiok  to  abtbologt. 

aspect  be  past,  the  injury  is  done,  and  the  enmity  is  dying 
away,  unless  the  querent's  significator,  or  }) ,  be  about  to  re- 
ceive another  ill  aspect. 

If  the  quesited's  significator  be  placed  in  the  12th,  or  in 
any  good  aspect  with  any  planet  which  is  in  Q  or  ^  to  the 
}) ,  or  lord  of  the  ascendant,  without  reception,  there  is  enmity 
to  the  querent. 

If  the  question  be  general,  the  lord  of  the  1 2th  and  planets 
therein  must  be  taken ;  and  they  shew  private  enemies  to  the 
querent,  unless  a  benefic  planet  be  in  the  12th,  and  throw  a 
-K*>  or  Ay  to  the  querent's  significators.  If  there  be  many 
planets  in  the  7th,  it  shews  many  open  enemies ;  and  if  in  the 
12th,  many  secret  foes.  The  Q  shews  envy  and  malice, 
which  maybe  reconciled;  the  ^f,  if  without  reception,  de^ 
notes  irreconcilable  enemies.  If  an  evil  planet  in  the  12th 
throw  a  good  aspect  to  the  querent's  significator,  it  shews  that 
there  is  some  person  who  under  pretence  of  friendship  wishes 
to  injure  the  querent.  The  same  if  the  lord  of  the  1 1th  be  in 
the  12th.  The  house  the  lord  of  the  12th  is  in,  will  describe 
what  person  will  injure  the  querent. 


nriRODUCTIOir  to  IBTBOLOeT. 

Fig.  14. 


229 


JUBGHSKT  OK  THE   FlOIIBB  ABOYB. 

State  of  the  Querenfs  case, — ^A  gentleman  had  been  a  long 
time  an  earnest  suitor  nnto  her  for  marriage ;  but  she  had 
eontinnally  slighted,  and  at  last  had  given  him  a  pontive 
denial;  after  which  she  sorely  repented  her  conduct,  and 
▼ished  she  had  her  former  opportunity.  She  was  in  this 
■tate  when  she  propounded  her  question  to  me. 


The  ascendant  and  ©  are  for  the  querent ;   Fj ,  lord  of  the 
^th,  and  y,  are  for  the  gentleman.    The  querent  was  mode- 


230  INTEODUOTION  TO  ASTBOLOOT. 

rately  tall,  of  round  face,  sanguine  complexion,  grey  eyes, 
light  brown  hair,  occasioned  by  ©,  lord  of  the  ascendant, 
being  in  the  terms  of  ^J ,  and  she  was  of  cheerful  modest 
countenance,  comely,  and  well  spoken. 

Finding  ^,  in  the  south  angle,  in  cS  ^th  (J  in  0,  a 
fixed,  earthy  sign,  I  judged  the  quesited  to  be  of  middle 
stature,  not  tall,  nor  handsome ;  a  long  face,  not  well  com- 
posed ;  a  wan,  pale  complexion ;  hair  dark,  or  of  a  sad  ches- 
nut  colour,  curling  and  crisp ;  his  eyes  fixed,  always  down- 
looking,  musing,  stooping  forward  with  his  head,  some  impe- 
diment in  his  walking,  as  treading  awry,  &c.  (All  this  was 
confessed.) 

Finding  f?  so  elevated,  and  in  cJ  (?>  I  judged  that  he 
was  gloomy  and  angry,  discontented,  scorning  his  former 
slights,  (as  all  saturnine  people  do) ;  and  I  judged  him  much 
incensed  by  a  relation,  a  gentleman  of  respectability,  shewn 
by  ^i  lord  of  his  3d  and  10th,  and  that  this  gentleman  and 
he  lived  either  in  one  house,  or  near  each  other ;  this  being 
shewn  by  the  significator's  being  in  his  4th  angle  and  fixed ; 
{and  so  it  was,) 

I  said  the  gentleman  had  no  inclination  for  her,  as  the  3 
was  void  of  course,  and  applied  to  ^f  of  ©,  lord  of  the  as- 
cendant, which  shewed  that  she  herself  was  her  own  enemy. 
She  then  confessed  the  truth,  and  implored  my  advice  how, 
(;onsistent  with  honour,  she  might,  if  possible,  bring)  it  on 
again ;  and  she  appearing  in  great  distress,  I  began  to  con- 
sider what  hopes  she  had  in  the  figure.  I  found  0  applying 
to  >jc  of  Tj ;  this  argued  her  desire  and  affection  towards  the 
quesited  t  but  as  there  was  no  reception  it  gave  little  hopes. 
Finding  reception  between  %  and  J) ,  and  0  and  ]) ,  and  also 
that  })  disposed  of  ^  in  her  exaltation,  and  %  in  her  house, 
and  that  %  was  very  near  a  •)(•  of  Tj ,  applying^  and  not  sepa^ 
rating;  and  also  that  %  was  in  hia  exaltation,  he  being  a 


IKTEODTTCTIOW  TO  ASTEOLOGY.  231 

{ortxme,  and  ever  assisting  nature  and  the  afflicted,  and  thai 
he  was  able  to  take  off  the  malice  of  Y;  i  I  ^^  confident, 
from  the  exactness  of  the  aspect,  that  the  qnesited  was  inti-^ 
mately  acquainted  with  a  person  of  rank  and  worth,  (such  as 
7/  represented),  whom  I  exactly  described,  and  the  lady  very 
well  knew.  I  directed  her  to  apply  to  him,  and  acquaint 
him  with  the  full  extent  of  her  folly,  and  I  assured  her  that 
in  him  she  would  find  ail  honour  and  secrecy ;  and  I  doubted 
not  but,  by  God's  blessing,  he  would  again  revive  the  busi- 
ness, and  bring  her  to  her  heart's  content.  But  finding  that 
0  and  ^  came  to  ^  aspect  on  the  27th  of  the  month,  I 
advised  to  hasten  all  before  that  aspect  was  over ;  and  as  on 
the  19th  of  June  ^2  and  V  ca^ae  to  a  ^,  I  told  her  that  the 
gentleman  should  first  move  the  quesited  on  that  day  near 
noon.  My  counsel  was  followed,  and  by  that  gentleman's 
means  the  match  was  brought  on  again,  and  completed  within 
twenty  days,  to  the  content  of  the  sorrowful  (but  to  me  un- 
thankful) lady,  &c. 

I  acquainted  this  lady,  that  shortly  before  her  lover  had 
been  offered  a  match,  and  that  the  lady  was  well  descended, 
of  good  fortune,  and  described  by  ?  ;  but  that  she  need  not 
fear  his  marrying  her,  as  some  officer  or  gentleman,  who  had 
been  in  the  army,  shewn  by  <J,  would  prevent  that.  She 
well  knew  both  the  parties,  and  confessed  that  such  a  matter 
had  been. 

Had  the  query  been,  who  should  live  longest  ?  I  should 
have  judged  the  female,  because  0  is  going  to  <5  X,  and  (J 
afflicts  \. 

If,  whether  the  quesited  were  rich  ?  I  should  say  he  had 
a  good  estate,  as  %,  lord  of  his  2d,  was  direct,  swift,  and  in 
bis  exaltation,  &c. 

If,  would  they  agree  ?  I  should  say  they  would,  as  0  and 
\  are  applying  to  ^ ;  yet  T2  vith  ^  shews  a  man  who  looks 


232 


INTBODUOnOir  TO  ijrrBOLOGT. 


to  have  authority,  one  choleric  as  well  as  melancholy,  jealous 
iKthout  a  cause,  &c. ;  yet  the  •}(•  of  %  mitigates  his  ill  man- 
ners by  means  of  education. 

Jf,  will  the  querent  he  haneet  ?  I  answer,  her  ngnificator 
O  is  no  way  afflicted  by  $  ;  her  ascendant  is  ^tf</,  andUiere 
is  reception  between  If,  and  ]),  which  are  arguments  of  a 
Tirtuous  woman.'*' 

In  this  manner  you  may  examine  any  figure  for  discoyery 
of  what  is  necessary,  &c. 

*  We  should  rely  much  on  her  significator  0  heing  in  d  with  %» 
Fig,  15. 


IHTBODlIOnON  TO  ASTBOLOGY.  233 


JjTD&MJEST  ON  THE  ABOVE  QUESTION. 

The  querent  was  of  tall  stature,  ruddy  complexion,  sober, 
discreet,  and  well  spoken,  &c.  The  quesited  was  very  tall, 
slender,  lean,  and  of  a  long  yisage,  with  black  hair.  His  tall- 
ness  I  attribute  to  If.  being  in  die  terms  of  $ ,  and  the  cusp 
of  the  7th  being  also  in  his  terms.  Indeed,  a  significator 
being  in  the  terms  of  any  planet,  does  vary  the  party  from  his 
natural  constitution ;  so  that  he  will  retain  a  tincture  from 
that  planet,  according  as  he  is  dignified.*  The  darkness  of 
his  hair  I  attribute  to  the  aspect  of  T^  to  1/,  and  ^  being  in 
the  term  of  If. . 

^  is  here  the  querent's  significator ;  and  being  retrograde, 
and  under  the  beams  of  Q,  shewed  that  she  was  in  distress 
and  fear  that  the  quesited  would  not  have  her.  And  she  had 
some  reason  for  it ;  for  If  was  in  his  exaltation,  and  near  the 
-}(•  of  $ ,  an  argument  that  the  man  stood  upon  high  terms, 
and  had  been  tampering  with  another :  yet,  as  both  signifi- 
cators  were  in  semirsextile  aspect,  and  in  good  houses,  I 
gathered  hope  that  there  were  some  mutual  sparks  of  love. 
And  when  I  found  })  separating  from  D  of  7/ ,  <u^d  hasten- 
ing to  A  of  $ ,  thus  conveying  the  light  of  the  quesited's 
significator  to  the  lord  of  the  ascendant,  which  he  received 
willingly  by  his  retrograde  movement,  I  was  confident  that 
the  match  would  be  suddenly  brought  about  by  a  person 
described  by  ])  ;  who  did,  indeed,  though  with  a  little  diffi- 
culty, produce  the  marriage  to  the  content  of  both  parties. 

*  We  sbould  rather  consider  that  $  in  n  upecting  the  cusp  of  the 
7th  ;  and  the  }> ,  the  man*s  general  significator,  being  in  ^  and  aspecting 
71,,  shewed  his  tallness.     n  and  ^  are  tall  signs. 


234 


INTEODUOTIOir  TO  ASTBOLOaX* 


Fig.  16. 


Judgment  upon  the  above  Fioubb. 

The  ascendant,  ^  in  n::,  and  (^  in  n»  taken  together^  sig* 
nified  and  described  the  querent,  (the  servant's  master).  He 
was  short  of  stature,  corpulent,  of  good  complexion,  and  ruddy, 
firesh  colour.  His  fatness  I  attribute  to  the  north  latitude  of 
S  >  which  was  one  degree ;  also  the  ascendant  was  in  the  terms 
of  ii  and  face  of  0>  ^^o  was  in  partile  A  to  ])  in  a  moiat 
sign,  which  shews  a  full  body,  and  phlegmatic. 

The  serrant  was  shewn  by  $  (lord  of  the  6th)  and  m. 


nrTBODircTioK  to  astbologt.  235 

He  vaa  a  well-set  short  fellow,  large  joints,  broad  and  full 
fiice,  dark  brown  hair,  his  teeth  irregular,  complexion  obscure 
and  sunburnt,  yet  his  skin  clear ;  his  age  about  nineteen. 

I  observed  that  he  went  away  from  his  master  the  pre- 
ceding Sunday,  when  ])  was  in  n,  a  western  sign,  where  ($ 
now  was ;  and  that  $ ,  the  common  significator  of  servants, 
was  in  r;:s ,  a  western  sign,  but  south  quarter  of  heaven. 

I  judged,  therefore,  that  he  went  westward  at  first,  and  that 
at  the  time  of  the  question  he  was  west  from  the  querent's 
house ;  and  this  I  judged,  because  ^  was  angular,  otherwise 
I  should  have  judged  by  J .  As  <y  and  § ,  lord  of  the 
ascendant,  were  hastening  to  a  A  out  of  angles,  I  judged  that 
in  a  day  or  two  he  should  have  his  servant  again. 

Upon  the  Friday  following  he  came  home,  and  said  he  had 
been  at  Kingston  upon  Thames ;  which,  if  true,  he  was  nearly 
west,  but  a  little  south ;  and  near  a  great  water,  (viz.  the 
Thames),  as  the  ])  in  s  might  signify* 


236 


IHTBODUCTIOK  TO  ASTEOLOQT. 
Fig.  17. 


^mzi 


JUDGMEKT  UPOK  THE  ABOTB   FiaUEB. 

The  queries  to  me  were.  What  part  of  the  city  they  should 
search  ?  and,  should  he  he  found  ? 

The  querent  was  described  by  the  sign  ascending,  and  Cauda 
(3)  therein;  and,  indeed,  he  was  eatumine,  and  vitiated 
both  in  body  and  mind ;  that  is,  he  was  a  little  deformed  in 
body,  of  small  stature,  and  extremely  covetous  in  disposition, 
&c.  The  sign  of  the  6th  signifies  a  dog,  as  it  would  haye 
done  a  sheep,  hog,  &c.,  or  any  small  cattle. 


INTBODUOnOK  TO  JLSTBOLO0T.  237 

The  sign  n  is  west  and  by  south,  the  quarter  of  heayen 
▼esterly ;  $ ,  the  dog's  significator,  is  in  £i,  a  western  sign, 
and  is  in  a  south-western  quarter  of  heaven ;  the  J  is  in  try, 
a  south-west  sign,  yergiug  to  the  west  angle.  The  plurality 
of  testimonies  shewed  that  the  dog  ought  to  be  west  from 
where  the  owner  lived,  which  was  at  Temple-bar ;  therefore 
I  judged  that  the  dog  was  about  Long  Acre,  or  upper  part  of 
Drury  Lane.  As  ^  was  in  a  sign  of  the  same  tripHcity  with 
H,  which  signifies  London,  and  applied  to  A  of  the  cusp  of 
the  6th,  I  judged  that  the  dog  was  not  out  of  the  lines  of 
communication,  but  in  the  same  quarter ;  of  which  I  was 
more  satisfied  by  the  A  of  O  ^o  >2  •  $  being  in  an  airy 
sign,  I  said  the  dog  was  in  some  garret  or  upper  room;  and^ 
as  ]>  was  under  the  beams  of  0>  t^d  $ ,  ]) ,  and  0  were  in 
the  8th  house,  that  he  was  kept  privately,  or  in  great  secrecy. 
But  as  G J  on  the  following  Monday,  formed  a  A  to  ^2  >  lord 
of  the  ascendant,  and  ])  formed  a  A  to  (^,  who  has  dignities 
in  the  ascendant,  I  intimated  that  he  should  then  have  news 
of  his  dog  ;  and  this  proved  true ;  for  a  gentleman  of  the 
querent's  acquaintance,  coming  accidentally  to  see  a  friend  in 
Long  Acre,  found  the  dog  chained  up  under  a  table,  and 
knowing  him  to  belong  to  the  querent,  sent  him  home  about 
ten  o'clock  on  the  Monday  morning,  to  my  very  great  credit. 

Usually  I  find  that  aU  fogitives  go  by  the  ]) ;  and  as  she 
varies  her  sign,  they  waver  and  shift  their  flight,  declining 
more  to  east,  west,  north,  or  south.  But  you  must  judge  by 
the  Ngnificator  or  the  D ,  according  to  which  is  strongest ;  or 
if  both  be  equally  strong,  take  that  which  best  describes  the 
fugitive,  with  regard  also  to  that  one  which  is  nearest  in 
aspect  to  the  cusp  of  the  house  from  whence  signification  is 
taken.  That  is,  if  the  fugitive  be  a  servant  or  small  animal^ 
the  6th ;  if  a  large  animal,  the  12th ;  if  a  son  or  daughter, 
the  bih;  and  if  a  wife,  the  7th,  &c. 


238 


OrTBODUCTIOir  TO  JiSTBOLOar, 

jF^.  18. 


Judgment  on  thb  above  Figure. 

Here  v\  ascends,  and  partly  describes  the  querent^s  per- 
son ;  (^ ,  his  mind  and  disposition ;  c?  i^  D  ^  $  and  ^ , 
shewed  him  ill-conditioned,  arrogant,  proud,  wasteful,  &c. 
As  (J  is  in  25"  2'  of  fl ,  he  has  entered  his  own  terms,  and  is 
in  his  own /ace,  I  therefore  refused  him  for  the  thief's  signi- 
ficator.  In  the  next  place,  f;  >  though  in  the  west  angle,  (the 
house  of  theft),  is  in  his  own  term  and  face  ;  I  also  passed 
him  by.  But  finding  ^  in  an  angle,  having  no  essential  dig- 
nity, and  in  partile  c5  of  T;  >  <uid  D  of  (J",  I  took  him  16 


-IirTBODxrcTioisr  to  astbologt.  239 

ngnify  the  tliief  .  But  whether  he  described  a  male  or  female 
was  the  question.  The  angles  are  part  masculine,  part 
feminine ;  no  certain  judgment  could,  therefore,  be  formed 
fiK>m  thence.  The  ])  was  in  a  masculine  sign,  applying  to  a 
masculine  planet,  ( (J ),  and  §  was  in  d  with  Tj ,  and  Q  to 
^,  both  masculine  planets ;  I  judged,  therefore,  that  the  sex 
was  male. 

As  5  ever  signifies  youth,  and  as  ])  was  so  near  the  G> 
separating,  I  said  he  was  a  youth,  of  some  15  or  16.  I  de- 
scribed him  of  reasonable  stature,  thin  yisaged,  hanging  eye- 
brows, with  some  scar  or  blemish  in  his  face,  because  ^ 
casts  his  D  to  $  ;  bad  eyesight,  as  $  is  with  evil  fixed  stars, 
(the  Pleiades,)  of  the  nature  of  (J  and  ]) ;  dark  hair,  because 
of  his  closeness  to  ^2 ;  a  scurvy  countenance,  and  one  formerly 
accused  of  theft  and  knavery. 

The  youth's  significator  being  in  (j  with  ^2 ,  lord  of  the 
3d  and  4th  houses,  I  judged  him  the  child  of  some  neigh- 
bour ;  and  as  })  is  in  n,  and  §  in  Q  in  the  7th,  I  said  he 
dwelt  either  opposite  to  the  querent,  or  a  little  south-west. 
The  ©  being  in  the  ascendant,  and  disposed  of  by  (J ,  lord  of 
the  ascendant  in  the  10th,  and  as  ])  appUed  to  his  •)(-,  and 
was  within  about  four  degrees  of  the  aspect,  I  judged  he  should 
not  only  hear  of,  but  have  his  money  again  within  four  days. 
He  beheved  not  one  word  I  said,  but  would  need  persuade 
me  that  a  woman  servant,  shewn  by  (J,  was  one  thief,  and  Fj 
another ;  but  I  stood  firm  to  the  art,  and  would  not  consent 
to  this,  as  both  >?  and  ^  were  essentially  dignified.  The 
event  proved  me  right,  both  as  to  the  person  and  the  return 
of  the  money,  which  was  within  three  days  after. 


240  urTBOSxrcnoif  to  ABTsoLoax. 

Fig.  19. 


Explanation  oe  the  above  Fioube. 

living  in  the  conntry  in  1637,  I  bad  bought  at  London 
some  fish  for  my  provision  in  Lent ;  it  came  down  by  the 
barge  to  Walton.  On  Saturday,  the  10th  February,  one  of 
the  watermen,  instead  of  bringing  my  fish  home,  acquainted 
me  that  their  warehouse  was  robbed  last  night,  and  my  fish 
stolen.  I  took  the  exact  time  I  first  heard  the  report,  and 
erected  this  figure  accordingly ;  endeavouring  to  give  myself 
satisfaction  as  to  what  became  of  my  goods,  and,  if  possible, 
to  recover  part  or  all  of  them. 


XNTBOPVcnoir  to  astbologt.  241 

Judgment, 

I  first  observed  that  there  was  no  peregrine  planet  in  an 
angle  but  % ,  whom  I  found  on  the  cusp  of  the  7th  house. 
I  considered  the  signification  of  *]!/  in  1T\^  a  moist  sign,  and 
the  significator  of  my  goods,  $  in  K ,  a  moist  sign ;  and  that 

0  was  in  s,  a  moist  sign.  Discretion,  together  with  art, 
led  me  to  think  he  who  had  my  goods  must  be  a  person  whose 
profession,  or  calling,  was  to  liye  upon  the  water ;  and  that 
they  were  in  some  low  room,  in  a  moist  place,  because  0 
was  in  s,  and  ])  was  in  Q,  an  earthy  sign,  and  under  the 
earth. 

I  was  confident  I  should  hear  of  my  goods  again,  as  $ , 
lord  of  the  2d,  was  appUed  to  by  •)(•  of  ]) ,  who  was  lady  of 
0,  and  yet  without  hope  of  recoyering  them,  as  $'  was  in 
his  fall,  and  detriment ;  but  as  he  was  in  his  own  terms, 
and  had  a  A  to  0,  there  were  hopes  of  regaining  some  of  my 
goods. 

There  being  no  waterman  in  Walton  described  by  1|/  in  it\,, 

1  examined  what  fisherman  there  was  of  that  complexion  ; 
and  as  ^ ,  lord  of  the  7th,  was  leaving  it\,,  his  own  sign,  and 
entering  another,  I  inquired  if  any  fisherman  of  the  nature 
of  ^  and  %  had  lately  sold  any  land,  or  was  leaving  his  own 
house  and  going  to  another ;  such  a  one  I  discovered, 
who  lived  near  the  Thames  side,  a  mere  fisherman,  but  a 
jovial  fellow,  though  much  suspected  of  thievery.  He  was  of 
good  stature,  thick,  and  full-bodied,  fair  complexion,  and  red 
or  yellowish  hair. 

I  procured  a  warrant  from  a  justice  of  peace,  and  reserved 
it  privately  until  Sunday,  the  18th  of  the  month ;  and  then, 
with  a  constable  and  the  bargeman,  I  searched  only  that  one 
house  of  the  suspected  fisherman.  I  found  part  of  my  fish  in 
water,  part  eaten,  part  not  consumed;   all  confessed.     I 

B 


242  iimoDiTCTioir  to  astbologt. 

asked  the  woman  for  seyen  Portugal  onions  vhich  I  had  loet 
also  ;  hut  she,  not  knowing  what  they  were,  had  made  pot- 
tage with  them.  I  freely  remitted  the  remainder  of  my  fish, 
though  the  hireling  priest  of  Walton  affirmed  that  I  had 
satisfaction  for  it.     But  he  never  hurt  himself  with  a  lie. 

Thus  you  see,  that  the  peregrine  planet  in  an  angle  de- 
scribes the  thief ;  and  that  either  0  or  ])  in  the  ascendant 
gives  assured  hopes  of  discovering  who  it  was.  The  })  ap- 
pljring  to  the  lord  of  the  2d,  argues  recovery ;  if  they  both  be 
essentially  dignified,  complete;  but  if  accidentally  fortified, 
partial.  If  both  be  peregrine,  and  they  apply,  there  will  be 
a  discovery,  but  no  recovery. 


mTBOsiroTioir  to  ASTBOLoer. 
iV.  20. 


243 


J  Figure  erected  to  know  whether  Sir  WillUlM  Wallee  or 
Sir  Kalph  Hoptoit  should  overcome  ;  they  being  supposed 
to  be  engaged  near  Alsford  ?  29  ^A  March,  1644. 

JuDaMEirr  ok  the  above  Fioitee. 

The  ascendant  is  for  our  army,  the  J ,  1|/ ,  and  ? ,  for  our 
generals,  viz.  Sir  William  Waller,  and  Major-General  Browne, 
a  Taliant  and  prudent  citizen  of  London,  who  may  justly 
claim  a  large  share  of  honour  in  that  day's  service.  Sir 
Ralph  Hopton  is  signified  by  ^  ,  lord  of  the  7th ;  his  army 
bj  Vf  in  the  descending  part  of  heaven  which  is  usually 

b2 


244  DTTEODUCTIOK  TO  JLSTEOLOGT. 

given  to  the  friends  and  assistants  of  the  enemy.    There  are 
only  (J  and  8  in  the  9th ;  so  it  appears  that  Sir  Ralph  had 
no  supplies  ready  to  attend  that  day's  snecess,  &c.    From 
the  ]),  having  principal  signification  of  ns  and  our  army, 
being  in  her  exaltation  with  11,  I  concluded  all  was  and 
would  be  well  on  our  side,  and  that  the  victory  would  be  ours. 
From  her  separation  from  11 ,  I  said,  I  verily  conceived  that  we 
bad  already  taken  some  ammunition  from  them,  or  performed 
some  service  against  them.    This  I  was  confirmed  in  by  0,  lord 
of  our  substance  and  assistants,  being  posited  in  the  1 0th  house, 
in  the  very  degree  of  his  exaltation ;  (the  19th).    And  though 
I  thought  by  the  proximity  of  ^  to  ©  we  should  not  gain 
the  whole,  or  have  a  perfect  victory,  without  diminution  o£ 
some  part  of  it ;  yet  I  was  confident  we  should  obtain  a  con* 
siderable  proportion  of  their  ammunition,  and  have  a  victory, 
the  only  thing  inquired  after ;  for  the  ])  applied  to  $ ,  and 
then  to  a  -)f  of  5 ,  he  being  angular.     I  told  the  querent 
that  within  eleven  or  twelve  hours  after  the  question  we  should 
have  perfect  news,  and  it  satisfactory.     For,  considering  that 
the  fight  was  within  fifty  miles  of  London,  I  ordered  my  time 
with  discretion,  not  allowing  days  for  the  time,  but  hour9 ; 
and  this  because  ])  is  distant  from    $  1 1%  but  is  withal  swift 
in  motion,  and  increasing  in  light.     These  were  also  signs  of 
our  success,  and  the  enemies'  defeat.     It  appeared,  by  a  letter 
from  the  army  on  that  same  Friday,  that  our  generals  took 
on  the  previous  day  120  commanders  and  gentlemen,  560 
common  soldiers,  and  much  ammunition.     Thus  the  enemy 
was  worsted,  as  appeared  by  Tj ,  (the  Lord  Hopton's  signifi- 
cator),  being  suh  radiis,  in  his  fall  in  no  aspect  to  any  planet, 
wholly  peregrine,  and  unfortunate,  and  aspecting  the  cusp  of 
the  7th  by  a .     All  this  argued  that  he  would  bring  losa  to 
his  army,  and  dishonour  to  himself  by  the  fight,  &c. 


IlTTBODirOTIOir  TO  ASTBOLOeX. 

Fig.  21. 

Sljts.'io 


245 


on^i 


QuxsTiOK. — Whether  his  Excellency  Robebt  Earl  of  Essex 
should  take  Eeabin^g,  having  then  surrounded  it  with  his 
Army  ? 

JUDGMEKT  OS  THE  ABOYE  FiGUBE. 

The  General  Essex  is  here  shewn  hy  (J,  lord  of  n^,  and 
his  Majesty  hy  Q,  lord  of  the  lOth,  the  forces  that  were  to 
rdieve  Beading  hy  $  in  K»  and  G  i^  d  ;  a^  the  town  hy 
ss>  the  sign  on  the  4th;  the  governor,  Sir  Arthur  Acton, 
(reputed  an  ahle  soldier),  hy  the  lord  of  the  4th,  T^  ;  <uid 
their  ammunition  and  provision  hy  % ,  lord  of  the  5th,  and 
by  f  located  therein. 


240  IHTBODXrCTIOir  to  ASTBOLOQt. 

The  8ignificator  of  his  Excellency  ^J  is  well  fortified,  and 
afflicted  in  no  way  but  by  being  in  his  fall.  This  figure 
manifests  that  it  is  of  great  importance  in  questions  of  war- 
fare to  have  ^J  friendly  to  the  querent.  The  ])  separated 
firom  nothing,  and  was  void  of  course;  and,  indeed,  there 
was  little  hope  of  its  being  gained  in  the  time  it  was.  She 
applied  to  •)(•  of  (J^  from  signs  of  long  ascension,  which  waa 
equiyalent  to  a  Q  ;  which  argued  that  his  ExceHency  would 
have  much  difficulty  and  some  fighting  ere  he  could  ^^t  it. 
But  as  (J  and  ])  were  in  reception,  viz.  <J  in  her  house,  and 
she  in  his  terms  and  face,  and  near  Cor  SI »  and  in  the  house 
of  honour,  I  judged  that  his  Excellency  would  obtain  and 
take  Reading,  and  gain  honour  thereby.  Finding  ©,  hi» 
Majesty's  significator,  in  the  7th  in  a  fibbed  sign,  I  said  that 
he  would  send  forces  to  relieve  the  town,  and  oppose  all  he 
could ;  but  that  he  would  not  prevail,  as  <J  was  better  forti- 
fied than  ©.  The  King  did  come  in  person,  and  was  beaten 
back  at  Causham  Bridge. 

Finding  that  s::  was  not  afflicted,  I  judged  the  town  strong, 
and  able  to  hold  out ;  and  ?  being  in  the  5th,  that  they 
wanted  not  ammunition.  Having  well  -weighed  all  things, 
and  that  ^ ,  lord  of  the  4th,  signifying  the  Governor,  was  in 
his  fall  with  8,  and  that  J  and  IJ.  were  not  far  from  8,  I 
said,  (and  sent  somebody  word),  that  the  most  certain  way, 
and  which  would  assuredly  occasion  the  surrender  of  the 
town,  was  to  set  division  among  the  principal  officers,  and  in- 
cense them  against  their  chief  officer,  and  that  about  eight 
days  from  the  time  of  the  question  his  Excellency  would  be 
master  of  the  town ;  yet  rather  by  composition  than  by 
blood.  This  because  ©  and  (J  were  separated  from  their 
•X-  aspect,  and  ^  was  also  separated  from  the  O  of  ^  ;  as 
also  because  the  ])  applied  so  directly  to  -X*  ^^  ^®  ^^^  ^^ 
the  ascendant,  without  any  frustration,  &c. 


vsrsBODvanois  to  asteologt. 


247 


The  town  was  delivered  for  the  Parliament's  use  on  the 
27th  April,  three  days  after  the  time  I  said ;  but  it  is  obserr- 
able  that  they  began  to  treat  on  the  yery  Monday  before,  just 
eight  days  after  the  figure  was  set. 

The  Grovernor  was  hurt  in  the  head,  as  1^  in  T  with  ?5 
shews ;  nor  did  they  want  provisions,  &c.,  as    $   in  the  5th 


F^f,  22. 


3€7 


/y<C 

1 

~4 

^\ 

/ y/\^ 

/\\ 

\J 

'>&/ 

/^ 

f/^^% 

/^       X 

^^       \      \ 

^                  N 

\                              \ 

Ci                                         / 

29th  NoYBicBBB,  1832, 

\                                     « 

^                  / 

6.  P.M. 

\     '>^Z6iAi 

% 

g       xSh^6:M    I 

The  Trenches  were 

\      99  IP 

opened  against  the 

/         ^^  i 

i  \        J^ 

Castle  of  Antwerp. 

\5/ / 

\i>< 

V- 

rA 

^vW 

vV 

/ 

f  ^ 

/v 

\^ 

.,,___ 

^ 

^^ 

■^    ^ 

IHL     ^ 

^ 

*  The  well-known  mstance  of  a  military  siege,  the  capture  of  the 
CtfOe  of  Antwerp,  being  so  applicable  to  this  question,  and  the  time 
of  its  cammencement  by  the  q;>ening  of  the  trenches  being  so  well  au- 
tboiticated,  we  are  induced  to  offer  to  the  student's  notice  a  figure  we 
erected  liar  that  time. 


248       iNTBODxrcnoH"  to  ASTBOLoar. 

JUDGHEKT  OK  THE  FBEOEDIKO  PlOUfiE. 

This  figure  is  erected  for  the  latitude  and  longitude  of 
Antwerp^  and  is  an  exact  representation  of  the  heavens  at 
the  time  the  French  troops  opened  ground,  (or  began  the 
siege),  before  the  citadel  of  Antwerp.  By  it  the  student  will 
perceive  that  the  rules  laid  down  by  our  author,  being  founded 
in  truth  and  nature,  are  infallible ;  and  that  they  hold  equally 
true  in  the  19th  as  they  did  in  the  17th  century.  They  must 
eventually  put  the  sceptic  to  silence,  and  convince  the  world 
of  the  truth  of  planetary  influence. 

The  ascendant  and  its  lady,  the  J) ,  are  for  the  besiegers, 
the  7th  and  its  lord  for  the  besieged,  the  4th  is  for  the  town, 
and  its  lord  for  the  governor.  The  10th  is  the  house  of 
honour  for  the  besiegers,  and  we  find  11  potent  therein,  de- 
noting decidedly  that  they  should  gain  honour  by  the  siege. 
The  3  in  the  ascendant  shewed  success  to  the  French,  and' 
S3  in  the  7th  the  reverse  to  their  enemies.  The  lord  of  the 
4th,  ^ ,  is  in  his  detriment,  cadent,  and  in  exact  D  to  the 
evil  ^2 »  denoting  disgrace  to  the  governor,  who  is  thereby 
shewn  to  be  extremely  obstinate,  as,  indeed,  he  was.  The 
malefic  in  the  4th  denoted  that  the  place  should  be  taken, 
and,  as  J)  was  in  close  Q  to  (J^,  it  would  be  by  much  loss  of 
men  and  bloodshed  on  the  part  of  the  besiegers.  The  J)  is 
in  the  terms  of  cJ",  and  he  in  her  exaltation  and  triplicity, 
which  reception  denotes  courageous  conduct  on  the  part  of 
the  besiegers  ;  and  although  the  })  is  in  Q  to  cf ,  yet,  there 
being  mutual  reception,  it  shews  success  in  a  martial  exploit ; 
but  with  much  difficulty,  because  of  the  Q  aspect.  The  gar- 
rison were  denoted  by  the  5th,  and  its  ruler  $  ;  and  as  $  is 
in  the  6th,  (the  12th  from  the  enemies'  ascendant),  it  shewed 
that  all  the  enemies*  party  would  be  made  prisoners,  which 
was  the  case. 


DTrEODTTCTIOir  TO  ASTBOLOGT.  249 

The  citadel  capitulated  when  a  breach  had  been  effected ; 
and  they  surrendered  to  the  French  on  the  23d  December 
following ;  when  the  ]) ,  the  besiegers'  significator^  crossed 
the  cusp  of  the  7th  house ;  thus  entering  the  7th  just  as 
the  besiegers  entered  the  place  itself.  It  deserves  notice 
that  on  the  day  $  fell  retrograde,  and  D  crossed  the  cusp 
of  the  5th  (Dec.  15th),  the  besiegers  carried  the  horn  work. 

The  student  will  observe,  that  tlie  lord  of  the  7th  was  pere- 
grine, having  no  essential  dignity  whatever ;  and  that  the  ]) , 
besides  her  aspect  and  her  mutual  reception  with  $,  the  chief 
significator  of  warfare,  is  in  her  own  face,  and  disposes  of  >2 
by  triplicity.  Hence  the  besiegers  are  decidedly  the  strongest 
party,  and  should,  by  the  rules  of  the  science,  certainly  pre- 
vail. 

The  student  may  rely  that  the  figure  of  the  heavens  at  the 
first  moment  of  commencing  any  enterprise  whatever,  will 
in&Uibly  point  out,  to  those  who  really  understand  astrology, 
its  final  result. 


CHAPTER   XXXI. 

OF  THE  EIGHTH  HOUSE,  AND  ITS  QUESTIONS : 

Thxse  abb  Death,  Dowet,  the  Wipe's  Substance,  &c. 

QusBT. — Whether  an  absent  Person  he  dead  or  alive? 

Take  care  to  learn  whether  the  quesited  be  any  relation  to 
the  querent :  if  so,  look  to  the  house  signifying  that  relation ; 
and  if  not,  look  to  the  7th  for  the  quesited's  significator.  If 
the  lord  of  the  quesited's  ascendant  be  in  the  4th  or  the  8th, 
either  from  his  own  house  or  in  the  figure,  it  is  one  argument 
that  the  party  is  dead.    If,  also,  his  significator  be  in  the 


250  nmtODUcnoir  to  asteoloqt. 

12th,  Gt  his  own  12th  in  D  or  ^  to  a  malejGic,  or  if  ])  or  Q 
be  unfortunate  in  like  way,  you  have  strong  testimony  that  he 
is  deceased. 

If  the  significator  of  the  absent  be  strong,  and  in  a  good 
house,  and  separated  from  a  fortune,  he  is  not  dead.  If  he 
be  afflicted,  and  was  lately  in  ^  or  o  of  an  eyil  planet,  I 
judge  that  he  has  been  in  trouble  or  misfortune,  according  to 
the  nature  of  the  house  from  whence  afflicted ;  but  not  dead, 
unless  the  lord  of  the  8th  afflict  him  also,  and  the  lights  be 
afflicted. 

0/  the  Death  of  the  Querent  ? 

If  any  one  ask  concerning  the  probable  length  of  his  life, 
or  when  he  may  probably  die,  observe  the  ascendant,  its  lord, 
and  }) ;  also,  the  lord  of  the  8th,  an  unfortunate  planet  in 
the  8th,  and  that  ipianet  to  whom  the  lord  of  the  1st  or  ])  be 
joined  by  (5,  Q,  or  ^f  ;  and  you  may  determine  the  death 
of  the  querent,  according  to  the  number  of  degrees  between 
the  significator  and  the  aspect  of  the  afflicting  planet.  If 
the  lord  of  the  ascendant  be  in  (j  with  the  lord  of  the  8th 
in  an  angle,  it  notes  so  many  years;  for  in  this  question 
augles  do  not  accelerate  death,  but  show  that  life  and  nature 
are  strong.  If  in  a  succeedent  house,  months ;  though  if 
the  sign  be  Jixed,  it  gives  half  years,  half  months.  In  a 
cadeut  house,  weeks.  But  you  must  always  consider  whether 
the  significators  are  extremely  afflicted ;  if  not,  the  querent 
may  Uve  longer,  and  only  be  near  death  at  the  tune  threat- 
ened. The  lord  of  the  ascendant  is  more  to  be  considered  in 
tiiis  case  than  the  })  ;  and,  therefore,  his  d  with  the  lord  of 
the  8th  or  O  is  to  be  most  feared. 

Observe  that  the  D  being  strong  even,  yet  if  the  lord  of 
the  ascendant  be  afflicted  eztreiuely,  she  does  not  denote 
health  or  life,  but  only  success  in  his  affairs,  &c.    Aspects 


INTEODTJOnOlSr  TO  A8TB0I.0QT.  251 

by  separation  are  not  to  be  conaidered,  but  only  those  by 
application.'^ 

What  manner  of  Death  the  Querent  shall  die? 

This  judgment  is  chiefly  shewn  by  the  lord  of  the  8th,  if 
in  the  8th,  or  any  planet  therein  or  nearest  to  its  cnsp,  and 
having  dignities  in  the  8th  honse  ;  or  from  the  planet  which 
afflicts  the  lord  of  the  ascendant,  and  has  dignities  in  the 
8th.  If  it  be  either  :V  or  $ ,  or  that  they  be  in  the  8th 
honse,  or  aspect  its  cnsp  by  •)(-  or  A>  they  shew  a  natural 
death  by  sodi  diseases  as  they  shew  in  the  sign  they  are  in, 
and  the  part  of  man's  body  it  governs.  If  evil  planets  be 
there,  they  shew  violent  deaths,  or  fevers,  and  long  and  pain- 
All  illnesses ;  and  if  the  figure  be  violent,  it  may  be  by  acci- 
dents, &c.  The  Q  with  the  signiflcator  oi  death  is  very 
evil;  and  if  it  be  ^ ,  (and  $  assist  by  her  Q,  &c.),  it  shews 
fear  of  poison.  The  lord  of  the  1st  and  8th  being  the  same 
planet,  shews  that  the  querent  brings  on  his  own  death  by 
imprudence,  &c. 

Whether  the  Wife^s  Fortune  will  be  great,  or  easily  obtained, 
or  whether  the  Person  inquired  of  be  rich  or  not  9 

The  cusp  of  the  8th,  in  terms  of  7/  or  ?,  gives  good 
hopes  of  wealth,  or  if  7/  or  ?  be  therein.  If  they  be  essen- 
tially strong,  and  free  from  combustion,  &c.,  they  denote 
much  wealth ;  but  though  well  dignified,  if  they  be  combust, 
slow,  or  retrograde,  they  shew  trouble  in  procuring  the  for- 
tune, &c.  The  lord  of  the  8th  in  the  8th,  and  strong,  and 
no  way  afflicted,  gives  good  hopes  of  some  estate  or  legacy  to 
&I1  to  the  quesited ;  this  is  more  sure  if  either  the  lord  of 

*  U  the  fatal  d  or  aspect  fall  in  the  term  of  1^  or  ^ ,  or  exactly  in 
their  -^  or  A,  there  is  much  less  fear  of  death. 


252  uttbodugtiok  to  astsoloqt. 

the  4th  or  10th  be  in  good  aspect  with  the  lord  of  the  Sth 
from  angles.  If  0  be  in  the  Sth,  and  in  ^,  or  x:i,  or  any 
of  the  houses  of  7/^  or  ? ,  or  they  in  good  aspect  to  ©,  the 
qnesited's  fortone  is  good.  The  dispositor  of  0  in  good 
aspect  to  it,  or  7/  and  $ ,  shew  the  same  thing.  If  all  these 
happen,  the  qnesited  is  very  rich. 

If  ^  or  (^  be  in  the  Sth  and  peregrine,  the  party  is  poor, 
or  there  will  be  contention  about  the  property.  The  lord  of 
the  8th  combust,  shews  slow  performance,  and  little  ability 
of  what  b  promised  ;  and  if  S  be  in  the  Sth,  and  no  planet 
there,  fraud  is  intended,  or  more  will  be  promised  than  can 
be  performed. 

The  lord  of  the  8th  in  the  2d,  or  in  •)(-  or  A  to  its  lord, 
the  querent  shall  have  what  is  promised;  in  D*  with  diffi- 
culty; in  jf,  with  much  wrangling;  if  without  reception, 
never.  But  weigh  well  what  the  particular  figure  promises 
besides  these  general  rules. 

fVhether  the  Querent  shall  suffer  by  a  particular  Thing  of 
which  he  is  in  fear  ? 

If  you  find  the  ])  afflicted,  or  the  lord  of  the  ascendant 
unfortunate  and  falling  i^om  an  angle,  or  especiaUy  if  he  be 
in  the  12th,  and  the  J  with  him,  there  is  ground  for  his 
fear ;  and  he  may  expect  to  be  accused,  &c.  of  much  of  which 
he  is  not  guilty.  If  the  lord  of  the  Ist  ascends  into  the  1 1th 
or  10th,  or  be  joined  to  a  fortune,  he  shall  not  be  injured. 
If  he  apply  to  infortunes,  the  thing  threatened  is  true  ;  but  if 
to  a  fortune,  and  not  at  the  same  time  to  an  infortune,  it  is 
false  or  ungrounded.  The  ])  in  A  to  ©  discovers  all  sud- 
denly. The  ])  cadent,  and  applying  to  a  cadent  planet,  the 
supposed  danger  will  be  nothing,  or  come  to  nothing  in  the 
end. 


IHTEODirCTIOK  TO   ASTEOLOOT. 


253 


Fig.  23, 


QuESTioir. — Shall  the  Querent  eeceive  the  Poetioit 

PEOMISED  ? 

Judgment. — The  querent's  significator  retrograde  ip  the 
12th,  shewed  he  had  heen  in  despair  of  it,  which  he  confessed. 
The  female  is  signified  by  %  and  ]) ;  1/  in  his  exaltation, 
aiid  ])  in  ^,  a  fixed  sign,  argue  that  she  thinks  well  of  her- 
self, is  confident,  &c.,  yet  modest  and  virtuous.  The  })  heing 
near  0>  she  had  a  scar  near  her  right  eye. 

Finding  0  lord  of  the  quesited's  2d  in  his  own  house,  and 


254  nrrKODUCTiON  to  astbolooyv 

$  in  her  2d,  and  also  that  j)  separated  from  Q,  and  trans- 
ferring his  light  to  ^2 ,  lord  of  the  ascendant  and  2d  and  0, 
I  assured  the  querent  that  he  had  no  cause  to  fear  the  non- 
payment of  his  wife's  portion ;  that  all  promised  would  be 
paid ;  and  that,  to  his  farther  comfort,  she  would  prove  a 
chaste  and  virtuous  woman,  but  somewhat  proud.  I  have 
since  heard,  from  his  own  mouth,  that  this  judgment  proved 
exactly  true. 


CHAPTER  XXXII. 


OF  THE  NINTH  HOUSE  AND  ITS  QUESTIONS.  LONG  JOUR- 
NEYS, VOYAGES,  ARTS,  SCIENCE.  CHURCH  PREFERMENT, 
LAW,  &c. 

0/  a  Voyage,  and  its  Issue. 

If  there  be  good  planets  in  the  9th,  or  its  cusp  be  well 
aspected,  or  the  lord  of  the  ascendant  or  10th  be  there,  and 
well  affected,  it  is  good.  But  if  ^^,  ^ ,  c?*  or  8  be  there, 
it  is  always  evil.  If  the  lord  of  the  9th  be  with  an  evil  planet, 
he  shall  not  speed  well.  ^  shews  losses  and  sickness ;  J 
shews  danger  by  thieves  or  pirates :  and  8  much  the  same 
as  (J,  but  more  of  cozening  and  cheating.  The  house  of 
substance  from  the  9th  is  the  10th.  Fortunes  there  shew 
wealth;  infortunes  loss.  If  benefics  be  in  the  9th,  a  good 
voyage ;  if  malefics,  many  hardships,  &c. 

JFhat  Wind  and  Weather  the  Querent  will  experience. 

The  lord  of  the  ascendant  with  good  planets,  and  they 
strong  and  in  friendly  aspect,  and  the  lords  of  the  Ist  and 
9  th  in  A  out  of  11)  £t,  or  s:::,  shew  fair  weather  and  &vour- 
able  winds.     The  significators  in  ^f ,  out  of  fixed  signs,  shew 


DrrBODTToncm  to  astbologt.  255 

detention  by  foul  winds ;  and  if  near  violent  fixed  stars,  storms 
and  contrary  winds  will  drive  him  back. 

Of  a  long  Journey y  and  its  Issue. 

If  a  fortune  be  in  the  ascendant,  say  he  will  have  good 
success  before  he  sets  out,  or  in  the  commencement  of  his 
journey ;  if  it  be  in  the  10th,  then  he  will  have  success  on 
the  journey ;  if  in  the  7th,  at  the  place  to  which  he  goes ; 
and  if  in  the  4th,  it  will  be  on  his  return,  and  when  he  is 
come  home.  In  this  case  1/  gives  benefits  by  clerical  per- 
sons, judges,  magistrates,  or  gentlemen,  according  to  the 
querent's  situation  in  life  and  the  house  1/  rules,  and  the 
nature  of  the  ruler  of  1/ .  As  if  it  be  Q,  by  a  king,  or  noble- 
man, or  person  in  power ;  if  fj ,  it  wiU  be  by  old  people,  or 
ancient  matters,  or  farmers,  &c.  Let  him  apply  to  such  a 
person  in  his  affiEiirs  as  ^  describes,  acceding  to  the  sign  he 
is  in  and  the  aspects  he  receives.  If  it  be  $ ,  it  will  be  by 
women,  pleasure,  sport,  &c. ;  or  by  dealing  in  linen,  silks, 
jewels,  spices,  &c.  If  $ ,  by  writing  or  merchandize,  letters 
of  introduction,  &c.  If  ]) ,  by  some  female,  probably  a  widow, 
or  by  a  sailor,  or  by  carrying  news,  &c.,  or  by  play. 

Of  the  Length  of  the  Journey ,  ^c. 

The  lord  of  the  9th,  or  planet  therein,  or  }  in  moveable 
signs,  swift  and  oriental,  shew  a  short  time  absent.  If  they 
be  in  fixed  signs,  slow  and  occidental,  it  shews  a  long  and 
tedious  journey  and  absence.  If  they  be  in  common  signs, 
they  shew  change  of  mind,  and  a  varying  of  his  journey, 
going  to  other  {daces,  &c.  According  as  the  ])  is  assisted  or 
afflicted,  judge  results  to  happen.  As,  for  example,  if  >  be 
in  the  6th,  or  in  ^  to  its  lord,  it  shews  sickness  or  impedi- 
ments from  servants.  The  lord  of  the  4th,  and  the  4th  house, 
denote  the  final  issue. 


256  INTEODFCTIOK  TO  ASTEOLOGT. 

Of  the  Return,  ^c,  of  a  Person  who  is  gone  a  long  Journey, 

The  lord  of  the  ascendant  in  the  ascendant  or  midheaven, 
or  aspected  by  planets  therein,  shows  that  he  is  thinking  of 
returning.  But  if  he  be  in  the  7th  or  4th,  his  return  is  pro- 
longed ;  and  he  is  not  thinking  of  leaving  the  place  he  went 
to.  The  lord  of  the  ascendant  in  the  3d  or  9th,  applying  to  a 
planet  in  the  ascendant,  he  is  on  his  journey  homeward.  The 
same  may  be  judged  if  he  be  in  the  8th  or  2d,  and  apply  to  a 
planet  in  the  10th  ;  but  in  this  case  observe  also  the  ]) ,  and 
whether  she  aspect  the  ascendant,  or  a  planet  therein.  If  the 
lord  of  the  ascendant  or  })  apply  to  a  retrograde  planet,  or  ' 
the  lord  of  the  ascendant  be  himself  a  retrograde,  and  behold 
the  ascendant,  he  is  coming ;  but  if  his  significator  be  afflicted, 
it  shews  some  hinderance  which  makes  him  tarry.  The  dis- 
positor  of  the  D  afflicted,  shews  hinderance  also. 

If  you  find  ^  or  the  ]^  in  the  ascendant  or  midheaven, 
judge  that  letters  or  some  news  shall  come  shortly  from  the 
party ;  for  J  is  the  significator  of  letters,  and  the  })  of  news. 
If  they  separate  from  a  fortune,  it  denotes  good  news ;  and  if 
from  an  infortune,  the  contrary. 

The  planet  from  whom  the  lord  of  the  ascendant  of  the 
quesited  is  separated,  is  the  significator  of  the  state  and  con- 
dition in  which  he  lately  was  ;  the  planet  to  whom  he  applies, 
of  the  state  in  which  he  now  is ;  and  the  planet  to  whom  he 
afterwards  applies  is  the  significator  of  him  to  whom  he  in- 
tends to  come. 

If  the  quesited's  significator  be  going  out  of  one  sign  into 
another,  judge  that  he  went  out  of  the  place  he  was  in,  and 
entered  another,  or  that  he  has  undertaken  another  joiimey. 
Observe  in  which  of  those  signs  he  was  stronger,  better  as- 
pected and  received,  &c. ;  and  so  judge  of  his  corresponding 
condition. 

Observe,  that  combustion  in  all  questions  of  one  absent. 


lOTEODFCTIOK  TO  ASTBOLOGT.  257 

shews  some  great  evil ;  such  as  imprisonment,  &c.  ;  and  if  it 
be  in  the  house  of  death,  or  ©  be  lord  of  the  house  of  death, 
it  generally  denotes  death. 

Ever  consider  for  whom  the  question  is  asked,  and  take  his 
proper  significator.  The  lord  of  the  7th  for  a  husband  (or 
for  any  one  who  is  no  relation),  the  lord  of  the  3d  a  brother, 
5th  a  son,  &c. ;  and  note  how  the  fortunes  are  placed ;  if 
strong  in  the  figure,  well  aspecting  the  significator  of  the 
quesited,  or  in  his  house,  judge  health  and  prosperity ;  and 
the  reverse  by  infortunes. 

OP  PROFIT  BY,   OE  PEOPIOIEITCT  IS,   AirT  SOIEITCB,   &C. 

The  ascendant,  its  lord,  and  the  }) ,  are  for  the  querent ; 
and  the  9th,  its  lord,  or  planet  therein  (if  more  than  one,  the 
nearest  to  the  cusp),  for  the  science. 

See  whether  the  lord  of  the  9th  be  fortunate  or  not, 
oriental,  angular,  &c. ;  and  whether  he  behold  the  lord  of  the 
ascendant  with  •)(-  or  A*  If  he  be  a  fortune,  and  aspect  the 
lord  of  the  ascendant,  the  man  has  scientific  knowledge,  and 
will  gain  thereby ;  the  more  so  if  there  be  reception.  If  the 
aspect  be  D  or  ^,  the  man  has  talent,  but  shall  do  no  good 
by  it.  If  an  infortune  aspect  either  the  lord  of  the  ascend- 
ant or  9th,  the  man  has  wearied  himself,  but  to  no  purpose, 
for  he  will  never  attain  the  knowledge  he  desires.  If  infor- 
tunes be  in  the  9th,  or  its  lord  afflicted,  the  party  has  but 
httle  scientific  knowledge. 

The  ])  must  also  be  observed  with  the  lord  of  the  9th ; 
for  if  they  both  apply  to  fortunes,  the  man  is  scientific ;  if  to 
infortunes,  the  contrary. 

If  the  question  be  put  regarding  anoth^  person,  you  must 
in  this  case  give  the  ascendant  for  the  quesited.* 

*  We  do  not  agree  with  our  author  on  this  point;  for  unless  the 
quesited  has  given  his  consent  to  the  question,  we  think  he  should  have 
the  same  aigi^cators  at  in  any  other  question ;  the  7th,  5th,  3d,  &c. 


258 


INTEODUCTIOK  TO  ASTUOtOGlT. 

Example* 


The  author  having  given  no  good  example  regarding  this 
question,  the  reader  is  here  presented  with  a  figure,  which 
will  no  douht  prove  interesting. 

The  editor  heing  in  company  with  two  other  artists,  a  gene- 
ral desire  was  expressed  to  know  the  future  destiny  of  astro- 
logy»  and  the  following  figure  was  erected. 

Fig.  24. 


Judgment  on  the  above  Fxgube. 

The  first  thing  to  be  observed  in  this  figure  is  that  $  y  the 
natural  significator  of  science,  is  lord  of  the  9th»  and  is^  there- 


INTBODUCnOK  TO  ASTBOLOGT.  259 

fore,  the  significator  of  the  science  of  astrology.  He  is  found 
cadent,  and  almost  peregrine,  having  no  essential  dignity  but 
his  term,  by  which  may  be  seen  the  present  enfeebled  state  of 
the  science  ;  but  as  $  has  passed  through  four  degrees  of  his 
term  in  9l  fixed  sign,  this  points  out,  that  for  four  years  it  has 
been  in  some  measure  more  in  credit  than  previously.  And 
this  is  the  case,  as  it  is  about  four  years  since  the  Editor's 
publications  began  to  call  attention  to  the  science.     And  as 

$  has  just  passed  a  •)(-  of  1/,  who  describes  the  person 
asking  the  question,  it  is  shewn  that  the  science  has  been 
much  benefited  by  such  a  person,  about  nine  months  before, 
because  $  is  past  the  •)(-  of  1/  by  43',  which  shews  about 
nine  months,  taking  a  degree  for  a  year.  And  the  fiact  is, 
that  the  Grammar  of  Astrology  was  published  about  nine 
months  before  the  time  of  the  question. 

The  3  in  the  ascendant  shews  the  difficulties  the  Editor 
has  had  to  encounter,  and  the  contumely  he  has  had  to  meet 
in  bringing  the  science  forward  again. 

The  presence  of  \  in  the  9th,  denotes  the  discredit  in 
which  the  science  is  generally  held ;  and  being  in  (^  with  $ , 
it  shews  that  injury  has  been  done  to  it  by  elderly  females, 
who  pretend  to  practise  divining,  &e.,  but  who  are  held  in 
great  contempt  by  the  public,  as  may  be  seen  by  the  ^  (the 
general  significator  of  the  pubhc)  being  in  ^  to  both  $  and 

^ ,  from  the  house  of  enemies  to  the  science. 

The  next  aspect  formed  by  ^y'lA  the  ^  of  (J,  who  being 
lord  of  the  1 1th  house  of  the  figure,  and  placed  on  the  cusp 
of  the  11th  from  the  ninth,  denotes /n>nc&.  This  shews, 
thi^  in  about  four  years  from  the  time  of  the  question,  the 
science  will  gain  many  friends  among  persons  denoted  by  ^ 
in  II>  such  as  writers  of  public  spirit,  booksellers,  &c. ;  and 
there  is  no  doubt  that  about  that  time  it  will  suddenly  and 
lapidly  gain  ground  in  pubhc  opinion.     The   next  aspect 

s  2 


260  IKTBODFCTION  TO   AJ3TBOLOOT. 

formed  hj^^iathe^  of  ^J,  from  which  he  is  distant  14*  ; 
this  may  shew  that  some  tudden  mischief  may  he  done  to 
the  interests  of  the  science  by  means  of  female  agents,  as 
$  b  in  exact  sesquiquadrate  aspect  to  ^.  But  as  ^  is 
retrograde,  and  not  angular,  this  will  not  be  Tery  im- 
portant. The  O  is  u^  the  12th  from  the  9th,  and  denotes 
secret  enmity  to  the  science  by  men  in  power,  the  © 
bemg  in  Si ;  and  as  he  disposes  of  $ ,  it  shews  that  the  hand  of 
power  at  present  keeps  it  down.  As  J  is  18**  from  ©,  I 
judge  that,  about  the  year  1852,  some  important  honour  will 
be  done  to  the  science ;  probably  by  the  present  penal  laws 
being  repealed,  which  forbid  the  acceptance  of  any  remunera- 
tion for  practising  it.  As  $  has  20*  to  pass  before  he  reaches 
f(gy  his  own  dignities,  and  as  ^  will  tiien  have  entered  U, 
and  be  disposed  of  by  $ ,  I  judge  that  about  20  years  hence 
the  science  will  be  publicly  honoured ;  and  as  5  ^w  after- 
wards 18**  to  pass  in  a  common  sign  (signifying  months),  I 
conceive  that  about  18  months  after  that,  when  $  crosses  the 
cusp  of  the  9th  house  in  this  figure  (about  the  year  1856),  the 
science  will  rapidly  rise  in  public  estimation,  and  be  pubUcly 
studied  in  colleges,  &c. 

The  O  enters  irp  after  two  years,  as  he  is  two  degrees  off, 
which  will  cause  the  ruling  powers  to  relax  something  of 
their  severity  against  the  science;  and  as  he  then  has  18**, 
(equal  to  1 8  months,  being  in  a  common  sign,)  to  go  before 
he  passes  the  cusp,  there  will  be  some  person  of  rank  who 
will  assist  the  science  at  that  time ;  viz.  three  years  and  a 
half  from  the  time  of  the  question,  or  the  year  1838. 

The  ^  must  now  be  considered ;  she  is  hastening  to  <f  of 
two  planets  in  the  9th,  which  shews  that  there  is  yet  much 
opposition  to  be  expected  to  the  science  by  the  pubhc,  and 
especially  by  rash  and  violent  people,  which  ])  in  the  house 
of  i  always  denotes.     But  after  the  influenee  of  the  ^  of  ^ 


INTEODrCTIOK  TO  ASTEOLOGT.  261 

and  $  is  passed  away,  the  i  meets  nothing  but  favourable 
aspects.  It  is  very  remarkable  that  the  })  is  aspected  by 
every  one  of  the  planets  before  she  passes  through  T .  The 
first  aspect  she  forms  after  ^  of  ^  and  $  is  •)(-  of  1/ ,  which 
denotes  popularity  for  the  works  of  the  £ditor>  connected 
with  the  science.  The  next  is  A  of  $ ,  which  shews  an  in- 
crease of  students,  and  public  discussion.  The  next  is  -)f  of 
(J ,  denoting  increase  of  powerful  friends,  who  will  boldly  ad- 
vocate the  cause  of  the  science.  The  •)(•  of  ^  is  of  little 
import ;  but  the  A  of  Q  being  the  last  aspect  she  forms  be- 
fore leaving  the  sign,  decidedly  shews  that  at  last  the  science 
will  receive  the  highest  patronage,  and  be  publicly  honoured ; 
and  as  O  is  in  Q,  a  fixed  sign,  this  will  be  permanent. 
Finally,  the  cusp  of  the  4th  is  in  the  term  as  well  as  house  of 
(J ,  and  is  ruled  by  ©,  by  triplicity,  and  face ;  and  ©  casts 
a  A  thereto  ;  c?>  lord  of  the  4th,  is  in  (5  with  1/ ,  in  -)f  to 
5  and  }) ,  and  A  to  ^2  ^^^  ?  5  a^d  he  rules  the  j)  by 
house  and  face,  and  the  Q  by  face.  All  these  are  decided 
testimonies,  that  in  the  end  the  cause  of  truth  shall  triumph, 
and  the  reality  and  utihty  of  the  science  be  permanently  es- 
tablished. $  in  a  fixed  sign,  and  so  powerfully  aspected  by 
^2,  11 »  c?*  G®^^  of  the  4th,  the  house  denoting  the  end  of 
the  matter)   $  and  }) ,  is  another  strong  evidence  that  as- 

TBOLOGT  IS   DESTINED    TO    FLOUBISH    WHILE     THE    WOBLD 
ENDTJBES  ! 

N.B.  It  is  remarkable  that  $'  had  just  passed  the  •)(-  of 
5 ,  lady  of  the  2d  (or  house  of  property),  from  the  9th,  and 
lady  also  of  the  10th  in  the  figure,  and  9th  (house  of  law) 
from  the  9th.  This  shewed  the  benefit  resulting  to  astrology, 
by  the  repeal  of  the  law  which  taxed  Almanacs,  and  which 
greatly  injured  the  science.  It  is  also  remarkable,  that  ^ 
was  exactly  passing  over  the  2d  degree  of  n,  the  cusp  of 
the  10th   (house  of  honour)  from  the  9th,  about  the  7th 


262 


INTEODTTCTION  TO   ASTBOLOGr, 


Febroary,  1835,  when  the  last  sheet  of  the  former  edition  of 
this  work  went  through  .the  press  ;  and  at  the  same  time  ^ 
was  in  ^  23*  6',  having  just  quitted  the  9th  house,  where  he 
had  injured  the  interests  of  the  science, 

Fi^.  25. 


A  Woman  a.sks  of  hsb  Httsbakd,  who  is  at  Sea; 

IP  ALIVB?  WHEK  BETUEN? 

Judgment,  —  The  lord  of  the  ascendant,  §>  shews  the 
querent.  He  being  with  ])  and  fj  in  T,  which  rules  the 
face,  she  was  extremely  disfigured  in  the  face  by  small  pock. 


iNTEODTrcnoir  to  astboloot.  263 

had  weak  eyes,  &c.,  and  was  fall  of  grief  and  sorrow  for  her 
husband,  occasioned  by  ^  afflicting  $  .  She  had  also  a  lisp, 
and  spoke  ill ;  for  Y;  in  a  bestial  sign  afflicting  $ ,  causes 
impediments  in  speech,  especially  if  also  ^  be  afflicted. 

If.  signified  the  quesited,  who  being  in  the  10th,  and  lately 
separated  from  •)(•  of  ? ,  now  in  the  9th,  and  lady  of  the  3d, 
it  shewed  that  he  had  been  lately  some  voyage  south-east. 
And  as  7/  was  no  way  afflicted  and  swift  in  motion,  as  well 
as  angular,  I  judged  the  man  was  alive  and  in  health.  But 
as  5  '^ho  disposes  of  7/,  is  lord  of  his  8th  (viz.  the  2d 
house),  and  as  })  is  so  exceedingly  afflicted  by  ^  and  ^ ,  I 
said  he  had  been  in  much  danger  and  peril  of  his  life  by 
treachery  and  plots  of  his  adversaries ;  for  $  is  lord  of  the 
7th  from  his  ascendant,  and  ^  of  his  12th. 

Moreover,  7/  is  accidentally  but  not  essentiaUy  fortified, 
and  is  in  his  detriment,  and  near  Ocultcs  0 ,  a  violent  fixed 
star ;  intimating  that  the  man  had  endured  many  sudden  and 
violent  chances. 

Finding  l/.  more  fortified  than  ^ ,  she  almost  entering  0 , 
a  southern  sign,  and  1/  in  n,  a  western  sign,  and  south 
quarter,  I  judged  that  the  quesited  was  in  the  south-west  of 
England,  in  some  harbour,  as  7/  was  angular. 

JFhen  She  should  hear  of  Him,  or  see  Him  ? 

The  ])  separates  from  F?,  and  applies  to  §>  ^^  querent's 
significator ;  shewing  that  after  much  expectation,  &c.,  she 
should  hear  of  him,  and  in  about  three  days,  as  ])  is  so  near 
^ ,  and  in  a  moveable  sign,  {and  so  she  did).  But  as  ^  is  in 
a  moveable  sign,  and  })  afflicted  by  him  and  ^ ,  the  news  she 
heard  was  false,  for  she  heard  that  he  was  in  town ;  but  it 
was  not  so.  Considering  that  $  and  7/  hastened  to  a  c(  in 
n,  5  being  therein  very  potent,  and  that  this  was  about  the 
5th  May  following,  I  judged  that  she  would  about  that  time 


264 


INTBODUCTIOISr  TO  ASTBOLOGT. 


bare  certain  news  of  her  ho^and,  if  he  did  not  then  come 
home.  The  second  week  in  May  she  did  hear  from  him,  but 
he  did  not  come  home  till  July.  He  had  been  several  voyages 
in  the  west,  was  taken  prisoner  by  the  king's  forces,  and,  at 
the  time  of  the  question,  was  in  Barnstaple. 

Fig.  26. 


QUESTIOir. — ^WhBTHEB  PeESBTTEBT  shall  STAITD  T 

Judgment, — ^The  angles  of  the  figure  are  not  fixed,  but  the 
cusp  of  the  9th,  from  which  this  judgment  is  to  be  deduced, 
is  0 ,  a  fixed  and  stable  sign ;  and  we  must  also  judge  from 


nSTTEODUCTIOK  TO  ASTBOLOGT.  265 

^  therein  in  the  terms  of  11,  who  is  the  general  significator 
of  religious  matters.  11  is  now  stationary,  and  is  leaving  his 
exfdtation,  and  is  impedited  by  ^  ;  after  leaving  s,  be  enters 
tbe  fixed  sign  SI,  and  is  in  the  terms  of  ^  .  We  find  ?, 
who  roles  the  9th,  in  ber  detriment,  and  in  tbe  12th  house 
from  ber  own,  the  9th.  She  has  twenty-one  degrees  to  pass 
through  in  the  8tb  house  before  she  get  into  ber  own  sign  Q , 
and  where  she  would  be  fixed.  But  before  she  reaches  Q , 
she  meets  the  D  of  11,  (shewing  that  the  gentry  of  England 
will  oppose  it),  and  then  of  ^,  (lord  of  tbe  ascendant  of 
England,  t)>  hence  the  whole  commonalty  of  the  kingdom 
will  disapprove  of  it),  and  aU  three  planets  at  tbe  time  of  the 
aspect  in  the  term  of  ^  . 

There  is  not  a  single  planet  fixed,  except  ^ ,  nor  essentially 
dignified,  except  11  ;  tbe  ])  entering  via  comhnsta,  ^  and  $ 
in  their  fall,  $  in  ber  detriment,  and  %  impedited  by  $ . 
Tbe  ])  separates  from  $  in  tbe  8th,  and  then  goes  to  Q  of 
^  and  ll .  From  these  configarations  we  shall  form  our 
judgment,  that  fostebitt  may  see  that  thebe  is  some 

TEBITT  TS  ASTBOLOOY. 

The  position  of  ^  in  the  9tb,  who  is  naturally  of  a  severe, 
surly,  rigid,  and  harsh  temper,  may  argue  that  Presbytery  will 
be  too  strict,  sullen,  and  dogged  for  the  English  constitutions  ; 
little  gentle  or  compliant  with  tbe  nature  of  tbe  community. 
And  that  there  shall  spring  up  among  themselves  many 
strange  opinions  and  distractions  even,  concerning  this  very 
Presbytery ;  that  they  shall  grow  excessively  covetous,  con- 
tentious, and  desirous  of  more  than  belongs  to  them ;  worldly, 
envious,  and  malicious  one  against  the  other ;  that  among 
them  some  juniors^  represented  by    $,*  shall  be  light  in 


*  The  reason  of  this  is,  that  $  in  the  house  of  $  shews  persons  given 
tepleasore. 


266  IITTBODUOTIOir  TO  ASTBOLOaT, 

judgment,  wavering,  and  decline  the  strictness  of  their  disci* 
pline ;  and  that  the  elders,  represented  by  ^ ,  shall  not  be 
respected  on  account  of  their  excessive  rigidness,  nor  shall 
their  orthodox  opinions  be  consented  to. 

Observe,  that  F^  is  peregrine,  and  supported  by  no  favour- 
able aspect  of  either  fortune  ;  there  is  reception  between  }) 
and  him,  but  no  aspect:  $,  lord  of  the  10th,  signifying 
authority,  is  fast  separating  from  >2>  &s  i^  ^e  gentry  or 
supreme  of  the  kingdom  do  already  decline  from  the  severity 
of  the  austere  Presbyterian  clergy,  fearing  thraldom  rather 
than  freedom  to  ensue  from  their  power. 

Three  whole  years  from  hence  shall  not  pass,  ere  authority 
itself,  or  some  Divine  Providence,  will  inform  our  judgment 
with  a  way  in  discipline  or  government  either  nearer  to  the 
former  purity  of  the  primitive  times,  or  better  beloved  of  the 
whole  kingdom  of  England ;  or  authority  shall  in  this  space 
of  time  moderate  many  things  now  strongly  desired.  For 
some  time  we  shall  not  discover  what  shall  be  established,  but 
all  shall  be  even  as  when  there  was  no  king  in  Israel ;  a  con- 
fusion among  us  shall  yet  awhile  remain.  The  soldiery  then, 
or  some  men  of  fiery  spirits,  will  arise,  and  keep  back  their 
contribution  from  the  clergy,  and  will  deny  obedience  or  sub- 
mission to  this  thing  called  Presbytery.  It  will  then  come  to 
be  handled  by  the  magistracy,  and  the  grand  authority  of  the 
kingdom.  Also,  by  the  plurality  of  the  clergy,  or  men  of 
sound  judgment,  it  will  be  contradicted,  disputed  against,  dis- 
approved ;  and  these  shall  make  it  manifest  that  this  very 
Presbytery,  now  maintained,  is  not  the  same  that  the  com- 
monwealth of  England  will  entertain  as  a  standing  rule  to 
live  under. 

From  what  I  find  by  this  figure,  I  conclude  that  Presbytery 
shall  not  stand  here  in  England,* 

*  We  have  given  thit  judgment  at  great  length,  as  its  complete  fulfil- 


XWTBODUCTION  TO  ASTROLOGY. 

Fig.  27. 


-^Z'.iO 


267 


0^:^(S> 


QUESTIOK. — ^WhBTHEB  THE   QuBBENT   SHOULD   OBTAIN 
THE   PaBSONAGB  DBSIBED  ? 

Judgment. — In  the  first  place,  I  find  d  between  %,  lord 
of  the  9th,  and  ^y  lord  of  the  ascendant,  bnt  separating. 

ment,  by  the  re-establishment  of  the  Episcopal  chtirch,  being  a  matter  of 
history,  is  a  decisive  proof  of  the  truth  of  the  science,  and  of  its  ability  to 
decide  the  most  important  questions  both  public  and  private.  The  student 
will  readily  perceive  that  the  prediction  of  the  downfall  of  the  Presbyteriftn 
church,  as  feo-  as  regards  England,  is  made  according  to  the  strictest  rules 
of  the  doctrines  laid  down  by  our  author. 


2G8  INTUODUCTIOK  TO  iLSTBOLOGT. 

2dly.  Neither  the  }) ,  nor  lord  of  the  ascendant,  m  the  9th. 
3dly.  There  is  no  planet  translating  the  light  of  7/  to  (J" . 
4thly,  There  is  no  reception  between  11  and  (J .  5thly.  ^ 
is  impedited  in  the  ascendant,  and  by  his  presence  afflicts  the 
querent,  and  causes  him  to  despair  of  success.  6thly,  The 
})  separates  from  a  A  of  (J,  and  applies  to  J*  of  5 ,  lord  of 
the  3d ;  which  intimated  that  some  neighbour  of  the  querent, 
either  with  a  letter,  words,  or  cross  information,  would  wholly 
destroy  the  querent's  hopes ;  and  that  mercurial  men,  yiz. 
scholars  or  divines,  would  be  his  enemies :  and  as  I  found  $ 
in  £2:,  opposing  the  ascendant,  I  judged  that  some  female 
would  inform  against  him,  or  prejudice  him  in  his  suit. 

From  aU  this  I  persuaded  him  against  proceeding  any  fur- 
ther in  the  matter;  but  the  parson  being  covetous,  would 
proceed,  and  did:  and  when  he  thought  to  have  success, 
behold  a  scurvy  letter,  revealing  some  uupleasant  truths  con- 
cerning a  female,  dashed  the  good  man's  hopes,  et  exit. 

The  querent  was  fj  and  cJ  exactly,  had  wit  and  volubility 
of  tongue ;  and  as  5  *"d  ))  were  in  ^f ,  he  under  the  earth, 
she  in  the  12th,  he  could  never  discover  which  of  his  neigh- 
bours it  was  that  thus  injured  him ;  nor  would  he  ask  me.  If 
he  had,  it  must  have  been  ^,  lord  of  the  12th,  viz.  some 
farmer  or  dealer  in  cattle,  a  sickly,  repining  character,  living 
north-east,  about  fifteen  furlongs,  from  him. 


IKTBODUCTIOir  TO   ASTROLOGT.  269 


CHAPTER    XXXIII. 

THE  TENTH  HOUSE  AND  ITS  QUESTIONS.— VIZ.  OFFICE,  DIG- 
NITY, PREFERMENT,  GOVERNMENT,  TRADE,  OR  PROFES- 
SION,  &c 

The  usual  significators  are  for  the  querent;  and  the  1 0th 
house,  its  lord,  and  the  ©,  for  the  pkce,  preferment,  &c., 
inquired  after. 

If  the  lord  of  the  ascendant  or  D  he  hoth  joined  hy  good 
aspect  to  the  ©,  or  by  c5  or  good  aspect  to  the  lord  of  the 
10th,  and  this  planet  behold  the  10th,  or  be  therein,  the 
querent  shall  gain  the  thing  sought  for,  if  he  use  proper  en- 
deavours. 

Or  if  none  of  the  significators  be  joined  to  the  lord  of 
tlie  10th,  yet  if  the  lord  of  the  ascendant  or  >  be  in  the  10th, 
unafflicted,  he  shall  gain  it ;'  and  also,  if  the  lord  of  the  10th 
be  in  the  ascendant ;  and  very  easily,  if  the  two  lords  be 
going  to  a  good  aspect. 

The  lord  of  the  10th  joined  to  1/  or  $ ,  and  in  the  ascend- 
ant, he  gains  the  office,  &c.,  easily ;  if  joined  to  fj  or  <J , 
and  either  of  them  in  the  ascendant,  but  well  dignified,  it  will 
be  gained,  but  with  difficulty. 

The  lord  of  the  10th  receiying  ]),  or  the  lord  of  the  1st, 
denotes  success.  And  if  there  be  translation  of  light  from 
the  lord  of  the  ascendant  to  the  lord  of  the  10th,  it  denotes 
that  it  will  be  gained  by  means  of  such  a  person  as  the  planet 
translating  the  light  describes. 

If  the  lord  of  the  ascendant  apply  to  <5  of  the  lord  of  the 
lOdi,  and  there  happen  no  previous  abtdssion  by  any  other 
planet  before  the  <5  be  complete,  the  querent  will  gain  his 
desu^,  but  he  must  labour  hard  for  it. 

If  any  planet  be  in  -X-  or  A  to  the  lord  of  the  10th,  or  th« 


270  INTEODUOTION  TO  ASTBOLOOT. 

O,  let  the  querent  make  application  to  sucli  persons  as  they 
describe ;  for  they  may  greatly  befriend  the  querent  by  means 
of  their  influence. 

If  the  promising  planet  in  any  case  be  in  an  angle,  the 
matter  will  be  readily  completed;  if  in  a  succeedent,  but 
slowly ;  and  if  in  a  cadent,  the  affair  goes  backward  at  times  ; 
but  may,  at  last,  be  parformed,  if  the  planet  be  otherwise  well 
dignified. 

If  an  evil  planet  behold  })  or  the  ascendant  by  □  or  ^f , 
without  reception  mutual,  he  hinders  the  querent  by  means  of 
that  person  who  is  to  solicit  the  cause,  &c.  for  him. 

The  best  sign  of  all  is,  when  the  two  lords  be  joined  to- 
gether, and  the  $  separate  from  the  lord  of  the  10th,  and 
apply  to  the  lord  of  the  ascendant ;  but  it  she  apply  to  either, 
it  is  good. 

If  the  lord  of  the  ascendant  apply  to  good  aspect  of  the 
lord  of  the  4th,  it  denotes  success ;  but  if  the  lord  of  the  4th 
be  joined  also  to  the  lord  of  the  10th,  the  matter  shall  be 
effected,  but  only  after  much  delay  and  yexaticm. 

Whether  a  Person  shall  remain  in  the  Office  he  hel<ls,  or 
not  9^ 

Observe  whether  the  lords  of  the  1st  and  10th  be  in  cJ,  or 
any  aspect ;  and  note  whether  the  more  ponderous  planet  of 
the  two  be  in  any  angle  but  the  4th  ;  if  so,  he  shall  not  be 
removed.  But  if  the  heavy  planet  be  in  the  4th,  or  approach- 
ing it  from  the  5th,  he  will  leave  his  office.  Yet,  if  there  be 
reception  between  the  two  lordi^,  he  shall  recover  it  again ; 
and  if  the  reception  be  mutual,  he  returns  speedily,  and  with 
more  honour  than  before. 

You  may  judge  the  same  if  the  lord  of  the  ascendant  be 
joined  to  a  planet  in  the  3d  or  9th«  or  to  their  lords,,  and 


^ 


iNTBODUCnOir  TO  ASTBOLOGT.  271 

after  separation  be  joined  to  a  planet  in  any  angle,  except 
the  4th. 

But  if  the  two  lords  (of  the  Ist  and  10th)  separate  from 
each  other,  tlien  he  returns  no  more  to  his  office,  but  loses  it 
entirely. 

If  the  lord  of  the  ascendant,  or  10th,  or  the  ),  are  dis- 
posed of  by  any  planet  in  an  angle,  (except  the  4th),  and 
tbat  planet  be  slow  in  motion,  he  shall  not  be  removed  until 
that  planet  be  combust  or  retrograde,  or  leave  the  sign  be  is 
in ;  but  much  about  that  time  he  will  be  removed,  unless 
some  powerful  aspects  intervene. 

If  the  >  be  joined  to  the  lord  of  the  10th,  and  he  in  the 
10th,  the  officer  or  governor,  &c.,  shall  not  be  removed. 

If  the  lord  of  the  ascendant,  or  }),  be  joined  to  the  lord  of 
the  10th,  and  he  more  weighty  than  either  of  them,  and  in 
the  10th,  11th,  or  5th  houses,  free  from  impediment,  though 
he  behold  not  the  10th,  the  officer  shall  be  transferred  to 
some  other  place  or  office;  but  if  he  behold  the  10th,  he 
shaU  remain  where  he  is. 

If  the  ])  be  joined  to  any  planet  not  in  his  essential  dig- 
nities, though  with  reception,  (unless  it  be  ^  or  $  by  -Jf  or 
A),  the  querent  shall  leave  his  employment,  office,  &c.  If 
either  the  lord  of  the  4th,  or  }),  be  in  the  4th,  and  T>  ffij 
:^>  or  Vf ,  be  on  its  cuifp,  he  will  leave  it ;  and  this  is  noore 
certain  if  }>  be  then  joined  to  the  lord  of  the  4th,  and  he 
peregrine.  The  same  may  be  feared  if  ])  be  in  Yf>  and 
afflicted,  or  if  she  be  void  of  course,  and  the  lord  of  the  as- 
cendant be  afflicted. 

Whether  a  King  expelled  his  Kingdom^  or  an  Officer  having 
lost  his  Place,  shall  he  restored  ? 

The  ascendant  and  its  lord  are  for  the  querent,  be  he  king, 
duke,  or  gentleman,  &c.     Observe,  that  if  the  lord  of  the  1st 


272  INTBODUOTIOK  TO  ASTBOLOC^T. 

be  in  c^  with  the  lord  of  the  lOth,  and  the  more  ponderom 
pknet  behold  the  10th  house,  then  the  king  or  ruler,  &c. 
shall  be  restored. 

I£  the  planet  do  not  behold  the  10th  house,  observe  whe- 
ther )  be  joined  to  any  planet  in  the  ascendant,  or  10th, 
which  also  will  denote  his  restoration.  If  ])  be  in  T>  S» 
£b,  or  Vf ,  he  returns  the  sooner.  If  the  lord  of  the  10th  be 
joined  to  a  planet  in  the  10th,  or  the  Q,  (but  not  by  c^  to 
0)f  it  denotes  the  same.  The  lord  of  the  10th  a  lighter 
planet  than  the  lord  of  the  4th,  and  separated  from  him, 
argues  the  same. 

If  the  lord  of  the  10th  be  lighter  than  the  hwrd  of  the  as- 
cendant, and  be  joined  to  him,  he  shall  return  to  his  office,  &c. 
So  also,  if  })  be  joined  to  the  lord  of  the  10th,  and  behold 
the  10th  house,  unless  disposed  of  by  a  peregrine  planet 
under  the  earth. 

The  lord  of  the  1st  aspected  and  recdved  by  a  planet  not 
afflicted,  he  returns ;  if  not  received,  he  will  not. 

The  })  joined  to  a  planet  in  the  9th,  (it  not  being  a  for- 
tune),  shews  that  the  king,  &c.  recedes  from  his  kingdom,  &c. 
If  it  be  a  fortune,  and  in  T,  Q,  S,  SI,  ^,  Vf,  S2,  he  will 
return ;  and  if  it  be  in  n,  ^5?,  f ,  or  K,  be  obtains  office, 
power,  &c.  in  another  place. 

The  lord  of  the  10th,  or  }) ,  being  affiicted  by  cf  of  an 
infortune  in  any  angle,  the  king,  &c.  shall  never  be  restCMred.* 

0/  the  Profession,  Trade,  or  Employment  of  which  any  one 
is  capable. 

Consider  the  lords  of  the  ascendant  and  10th,  and  the 

*  This  rule  will  answer  the  question  of  there-election  of  any  Member 
of  Parliament  for  any  place  he  has  formerly  represented ;  as  well  as  the 
restoration  of  any  minister,  &c.  to  power,  or  the  return  of  any  individual 
to  any  office  or  employment. 


rNTRODDCTIOK  TO  ASTROLOGY.  273 

cusps  of  those  houses,  the  }) ,  and  also  the  places  of  ^  and 
$  ;  for  these  two  planets  are  the  significators  of  trade  or  em- 
ployment. Ohserve  which  of  the  two  ( (J  or  ?  )  is  the  most 
powerful,  and  note  the  sign  he  may  he  in ;  also  consider  the 
four  angles,  and  any  planet  in  them.  If  they  be  in  fiery 
signs,  or  the  majority  of  them,  (viz.  $,  $ ,  the  planet  in  an 
angle,  and  the  cusps  of  angles,  especially  the  10th),  and  ^ 
have  any  dignity  in  the  place  of  the  lord  of  the  10th,  or  the 
Q,  say  the  querent  will  make  a  good  tradesman,  &c.  in  any 
business  where  fire  is  used,  or  of  its  nature ;  and  if  the  lord 
of  the  10th  be  in  his  exaltation,  he  will  do  well  in  serving 
the  king,  or  any  high  nobleman,  &c. 

If  the  significator  of  the  employment,  (usually  the  lord  of 
the  10th,  or  a  planet,  especially  ^  ox  $,  in  the  10th,  near 
the  cusp),  be  in  T,  weak,  he  will  make  a  good  cattle-dealer, 
groom,  farrier,  grazier,  &c. ;  if  Btrongj  a  coachmaker,  vete- 
rinary sui^eon,  &c.,  where  he  has  to  do  with  horses  or  great 
cattle,  in  a  respectable  way. 

If  the  significator  be  in  Q ,  then  husbandry  will  best  suit 
him ;  or  gardening,  corn-dealing,  grazing,  &c. ;  or  if  $  be 
the  significator,  such  things  as  appertain  to  women's  affairs,  a 
soapboiler,  fuller  of  cloth,  scourer,  &c. 

If  the  significator  be  in  n,  he  will  make  a  writer,  clerk, 
bailiff,  &c.,  or  a  surveyor,  painter,  astronomer,  astrologer, 
geometer,  schoolmaster,  &c. 

If  he  be  in  s,  he  will  be  fitted  for  a  variety  of  occupa- 
tions ;  but  he  will  be  likely  to  go  to  sea,  or  to  deal  in  liquids, 
such  as  wines,  beer,  &c. ;  and  he  will  be  fond  of  poUtical 
distinction. 

If  he  be  in  Q ,  he  will  make  a  good  horse-jockey  or  coach- 
man ;  a  smith,  watchmaker,  glassblower,  huntsman,  or  cow- 
doctor  ;  or  to  do  with  any  trade  which  uses  fire. 

If  in  irp,  he  will  make  a  good  secretary  to  a  person  in 

T 


274  INTBODUCTION  TO  ASTBOLOGT* 

power,  a  schoolmaster,  accountant,  stationer,  printer ;  he  will 
be  an  excellent  politician,  or  be  a  good  astrologer,  &c. 

If  in  £h,  he  will  be  a  good  poet  or  orator ;  singer,  or  mu- 
sician ;  silkman,  or  linendraper,  &c. 

If  in  Vi,  he  may  prove  a  good  surgeon,  apothecary,  or  phy. 
sician  ;  or  a  brazier,  founder,  brewer,  yintner,  waterman,  or 
malster. 

If  in  f,  he  will  do  very  well  to  make  a  clergyman,  to 
study  chemistry,  to  buy  and  seU  cattle,  or  to  be  a  cook  or 
butcher. 

If  he  be  in  Vf ,  he  will  prove  a  good  chandler,  victualler, 
farrier,  farmer,  dealer  in  wool,  lead,  or  farming  commodities. 

If  he  be  in  c:^,  he  will  make  an  excellent  ship-carpenter ; 
and  if  any  planet  aspect  him  out  of  a  watery  sign,  he  may 
prove  a  good  sailor  or  ship-maater,  or  a  painter  and  oma- 
menter  of  ships,  or  a  merchant. 

If  he  be  in  K  >  he  makes  a  good  jester,  singer,  player,  &c., 
or  brewer,  or  fishmonger ;  but  generally  the  genius  is  doll, 
and  the  party  given  to  sottishness. 

As  fiery  signs  shew  workers  at  the  fire,  whether  gold- 
smiths, &c.,  or  bakers,  &c.,  so  earthy  signs  shew  occupa- 
tions connected  with  the  earth,  as  potters,  ditchers,  brick- 
makers,  gardeners,  &c. ;  airy  signs  import  singers,  game- 
keepers, actors,  &c. ;  and  watery,  sailors,  fishermen,  water- 
men, laundresses,  waiters  in  taverns,  &c. 


INTBODTJCTION  TO  ASTBOLOQY. 
Fiif.  28. 


275 


JUDaiiENT  OK  THE  ABOVE   FiaiTEE. 

The  ascendant  and  $  are  for  the  querent,  the  10th  house 
for  the  office  or  preferment  he  expected. 

Finding  ])  strong  in  the  10th,  was  one  argument  that  he 
should  succeed.  In  the  next  place  ]),  applied  to  A  of  T?, 
who  has  exaltation  in  the  ascendant,  and  who  receives  $  by 
house,  and  is  received  by  her  again  by  exaltation.  The  3 
applying  to  A  of  the  lord  of  the  4th  (T2 ),  argued  that  in 
the  end  he  should  obtain  the  office ;  but  as  Q  was  in  the  7th 

T  2 


276  INTJaODUCTTOH  TO  ASTSOLOer. 

in  ^  to  the  ascendant,  with  S,  and  was  lord  of  the  11th,  I 
jadged  that  he  employed  as  a  friend  a  solar  man,  who  was 
false,  and  did  rather  envy  than  feel  friendly  to  him.  I  con- 
cluded, that  with  some  difficulty  he  would  obtain  the  office, 
notwithstanding  the  opposition  a  pretended  ftiend  ofibred; 
and  so  it  came  to  pass  within  three  weeks,  and  he  then  dis- 
covered that  his  friend  was  false ;  who  had  a  great  scar  in  his 
face,  his  hair  of  a  blackish  colour,  shewn  by  Q  being  so  near 
3 .  The  separation  of  })  from  Q  of  $ ,  argued  that  he  had 
delivered  many  petitions  about  it,  hitherto  without  any  success. 


CHAPTER  XXXIV. 


or   THE   ELEVENTH   HOUSE,   AND  ITS  QUESTIONS,    TIZ.    OF 
FBIENDS,  HOPES,   PEOPBETT  OF  THE   KING,  &C. 

If  the  lord  of  this  house  be  strong,  fortunate,  and  well  aspected, 
it  foreshews  the  obtaining  the  thing  hoped  for ;  also  the  love 
and  concord  of  firiends,  &c.,  if  that  be  the  question. 

Whether  any  one  shall  have  the  Thing  hoped  for  ? 

Observe  whether  there  be  any  good  aspect  or  reception  be- 
tween the  lord  of  the  ascendant  and  11th,  or  translation  of 
light,  or  that  the  lord  of  the  ascendant  be  in  the  1 1th,  or  the 
lord  of  the  11th  in  the  ascendant.  All  or  any  of  these  give 
reason  to  expect  it.  But  if  there  be  none  of  these,  note  the 
]) ,  and  if  she  be  not  well  qualified  with  the  lord  of  the  1 1th, 
nor  any  benefic,  or  Q  in  the  11th,  judge  the  contrary. 

The  lord  of  the  1 1th  in  an  angle,  received  by  the  lord  of 
the  ascendant,  you  may  judge  in  the  affirmative. 

If  the  receiver  of  the  ])  be  in  a  common  sign,  judge  that 
he  shall  have  but  part  of  the  thing  hoped  for.     If  in  a  move- 


INTRODUCTION  TO  ASTBOLOGT.  277 

able  sign,  lie  shall  have  but  a  little,  a  mere  sign  of  the  thing  ; 
but  if  the  receiver  be  in  a  fixed  sign,  he  shall  have  the  whole 
or  complete  thing.  Yet,  if  the  receiver  of  ])  be  unfortunate, 
the  matter  shall  get  some  injury  or  hurt,  &c.  after  he  is  in 
possession  of  it. 

If  there  be  mutual  reception  between  the  receiver  of  the 
])  and  the  > ,  he  shaU  obtain  the  thing,  and  more  than  he 
looked  for.  And  if  the  lord  of  the  ascendant  be  also  re- 
ceived, he  shall  obtain  whatsoever  he  hoped  for,  that  is  feasible 
or  possible. 

If  the  querent's  significator  or  })  apply  to  a  fortune,  not 
cadent,  he  may  expect  the  thing  desired. 

N.B.  if  the  querent  name  the  thing  hoped  for,  then  judge 
of  it  by  its  own  proper  house,  &c. ;  as,  if  it  be  money  the 
2d,  if  it  be  children  the  5th,  &c. 

Of  the  Sincerity  of  Friends.  * 

Good  planets  in  the  11th,  or  3  there,  or  good  aspects  be- 
tween the  lords  of  the  11th  and  ascendant,  denote  the  friends 
of  the  querent  to  be  sincere ;  and  if  they  throw  good  aspects 
to  the  cusp  of  the  2d  house,  its  lord,  or  0,  it  denotes  gain 
thereby.  Evil  planets,  and  evil  aspects  in  like  manner,  denote 
false  friends  and  losses.  The  lord  of  the  12th  in  the  11th, 
denotes  a  secret  enemy  under  the  guise  of  friendship.  ^  in 
the  11th,  shews  wavering,  unsteady  friends,  unless  he  be  in  a 
fixed  sign. 

*  These  rules  are  not  found  in  our  author. 


278  DSTTBODUCTIOK  TO  ASI^tOLOGT. 


CHAPTER  XXXV. 

OP  THE  TWELFTH  HOUSE,  AND  ITS  QITESTIONSy  TIZ.  OF  IM- 
FBISONMEKT,  GREAT  CATTLE,  PEITATE  EKEMIES,  BANISHED 
KEN,  &C. 

If  a  question  be  asked  regarding  secret  enemies,  who  are  not 
named,  observe  the  lord  of  the  12th,  and  planets  therein,  how 
they  aspect  the  lord  of  the  ascendant,  and  from  what  houses, 
&c.  If  the  lord  of  the  12th  behold  the  lord  of  the  ascendant 
from  the  6th,  8th,  or  12th,  or  from  the  4th,  7th,  or  10th, 
then  there  are  some  who  privately  wish  ill  to  the  querent. 

To  know  who  a  private  Enemy  is. 

Observe  how  the  lord  of  the  12th  is  affected,  and  whether 
he  be  with  good  or  evil  planets,  and  how  he  behold  the  lord 
of  the  ascendant.  If  he  be  in  the  6th,  or  joined  to  its  lord, 
it  shews  the  secret  enemy  is  afflicted  vdth  some  secret  disease 
or  malady ;  if  the  lord  of  the  6th  be  in  the  12th,  he  is  also 
sickly.  If  the  lord  of  the  12th  be  in  the  10th,  or  vdth  its 
lord,  he  is  in  favour  with  the  king  or  some  person  of  rank ; 
and  if  he  be  strong,  it  will  not  be  well  for  the  querent  to 
meddle  with  him,  especially  if  he  aspect  the  lord  of  the  as- 
cendant or  })  by  D  or  jf .  If  the  lord  of  the  12th  be  with 
the  lord  of  the  4th  or  8th,  or  in  those  houses,  he  is  sickly  or 
near  dying,  or  is  repining,  and  very  miserable.  Consider  and 
judge  farther,  as  in  former  cases  directed. 

Whether  a  Person  committed  to  Prison  shall  be  discharged  ? 

First  learn  your  ascendant  exactly,  by  knowing  what  rela- 
tion the  quesited  bears  to  the  querent.  If  ])  be  swift  in 
motion,  it  denotes  a  short  stay  in  prison ;   if  she  aspect  a 


TKTBODrOTIOir  T0A8TB0L0GT.  279 

planet  in  the  3d  or  9th  by  •)(•  or  A,  or  by  D>  ^  with  re- 
ception), he  shall  soon  leave  the  prison ;  the  same,  if  she 
aspect  the  lord  of  the  3d  or  9th,  and  be  not  in  an  angle.  As 
YOU  judge  by  }) ,  judge  also  by  the  lord  of  the  ascendant. 
Bat  these  aspects  must  be  by  appUcation. 

The  lords  of  the  angles  being  in  angles,  is  an  ill  testimony ; 
and  so  much  the  worse  if  the  lord  of  the  ascendant  be  in  the 
4th,  or  if  either  he  or  the  lord  of  the  12th  dispose  of  each 
other.  It  is  still  worse  if  the  lord  of  the  ascendant  be  dis- 
posed of  by  a  planet  in  an  angle,  especially  a  malefic ;  and 
worst  of  all  if  that  malefic  be  in  the  4th ;  and  if  he  be  the 
lord  of  the  8th,  he  may  expect  to  die  in  prison.  The  >  dis- 
posed of  by  the  lord  of  the  12th,  or  any  malefic,  is  a  sign  of 
a  long  stay ;  and  it  is  still  worse,  if  her  dispositor  be  in  an 
angle,  and  especially  in  the  4th.  If,  howeyer,  the  disposing 
planet  be  in  a  moveable  sign,  or  swift  in  motion,  it  shortens 
the  time  ;  but  a  retrograde  planet  shews  a  long  detention.  If 
the  lord  of  the  ascendant,  or  ]) ,  be  combust,  it  shews  a  long 
imprisonment. 

The  })  and  $  in  moveable  signs,  when  $  is  lord  of  the 
ascendant,  shews  speedy  enlargement,  especially  if  they  aspect 
a  fortune.  If  11  ascend,  or  be  in  (5  with  D,  or  $  be  in  the 
ascendant  in  d  with  ]) ,  or  $  be  in  (5  with  11 ,  and  aspect 
the  J) ,  or  })  apply  to  7/  or  $ ,  he  will  be  discharged.  The 
dispositor  of  })  with  a  fortune  denotes  the  same. 

Whether  a  Prisoner  of  War  shall  escape  or  be  exchanged^  ^e. 

If  the  lord  of  the  ascendant  separate  from  the  lord  of  the 
4th,  and  apply  to  a  fortune  ;  or  if  the  lord  of  the  ascendant 
be  cadent,  or  leaving  an  angle,  he  shall  escape.  Also  if  he 
separate  from  combustion,  or  })  get  from  under  the  beams 
of  0. 

If  at  the  time  of  being  taken,  or  of  the  question,  a  fixed 


280  nrTEODTTCTioir  to  astbologt. 

sign  ascend,  or  the  }) ,  or  lord  of  the  ascendant,  he  in  a  fixed 
sign,  or  in  H>  it  denotes  long  imprisonment.  The  same  if  a 
fixed  sign  he  on  the  12th,  or  its  lord  he  angular,  and  in  a 
fixed  sign.  The  J,  or  lord  of  the  1st,  in  0  or  SI,  and  in  ^ 
to  (J,  shews  danger  of  heing  slain  hy  the  sword,  or  hy  quar- 
relling ;  if  in  (f  to  ^2 ,  it  shews  irons  or  severe  punishments. 
(If  it  he  an  ordinary  prisoner,  these  may  shew  sickness,  want, 
and  ill  treatment,  or  accident,  &c.) 

An  infortune  in  n::^,  shews  a  long  imprisonment.  If  the 
lord  of  the  ascendant  he  in  his  fall  or  detriment,  and  the  ]) 
in  s:^,  the  same ;  also  the  ]) ,  or  lord  of  the  1st,  in  the  8th 
or  12th.  If  J  apply  to  a  fortune,  and  the  lord  of  the  as- 
cendant and  the  cu^  of  the  ascendant  he  fortunate,  it  denotes 
liberation. 

Note. —  $  is  hetter  than  11  in  this  question,  especially  if 
in  aspect  to  $  or  3  •  If  3)  be  with  T^ ,  and  11  behold  them 
hy  D>  and  (?  by  A>  it  denotes  that,  after  a  long  confinement 
and  sufiering,  he  shall  break  prison  and  escape. 

If  a  felon,  &c.,  be  imprisoned  when  ©  ascends  or  rules 
the  ascendant,  he  shall  escape  (the  ancients  declare)  within 
a  month ;  if  $ ,  within  40  days ;  if  $ ,  he  has  long  impri- 
sonment ;  if  ]) ,  his  state  will  depend  on  and  change  accord- 
ing as  she  has  applications  with  other  planets ;  if  ^ ,  he  has 
long  confinement ;  if  11,  short;  and  if  ^J",  he  shall  be  ill- 
treated,  beaten,  put  into  irons,  &c. 


IKTBODtrOMOK  TO  ABTBOLOGT. 


281 


Fig.  29. 


9^60 


JUDOMEITF  OK  THE  ABOVE  QfESTIOK. 

The  prisoner's  person  is  described  by  f ,  the  cusp  of  the 
12th,  and  hj  If.  in  SI,  The  way  he  went,  and  intended  to 
go,  is  here  shewn  by  the  cusp  of  the  12th  f,  and  by  Q, 
where  11  is,  and  by  the  sign  and  quarter  of  heaven  wherein 
we  find  })  • 

All  of  them  considered,  they  signify,  nnanimously,  that  the 
prisoner  would  go  eastward,  or  full  east,  (and  so  he  did). 
The  closeness  of  ])  to  the  ascendant  shewed  that  he  was  not 


282  INTBODrOTIOK  TO  ASTBOLOaT. 

yet  out  of  town,  or,  at  least,  that  he  would  not  be  fiir  from 
town.  And  as  11  was  in  the  8th,  I  judged  that  he  lay  ob- 
scnie  for  awhile,  yiz.  a  night ;  but  that  then  he  would  go  away, 
(which  he  did), 

I  confidently  affirmed,  that  he  should  be  taken  agam  by 
some  man  of  authority;  for  ])  separated  from  A  of  7/,  his 
significator,  and  applied  to  ^  of  Q,  both  in  angles.  It  never 
fails,  but  that  if  the  ) ,  or  the  significator  of  a  frigitive,  be 
afflicted  by  an  unfortunate  planet  in  the  7th  house,  that  fugi- 
tive, or  prisoner,  is  again  taken.  In  the  next  place,  I  found 
11  and  $  in  •)(•,$  in  his  own  house,  and  applying  to  11  ; 
therefore  I  judged  that  the  querent  should  have  news  of  the 
prisoner  by  letter,  or  by  some  young  man,  within  six  or  seven 
days,  or  when  the  significators  came  to  •}(•  aspect ;  which  was 
six  days  afterwards.  The  truth  is,  that  on  the  next  Friday  he 
had  a  letter  to  tell  where  he  was,  and  on  the  Sunday  he 
apprehended  him  by  authority. 


DTFBODirOTIOir  TO  ABTBOLOOY. 


283 


QtTEBTION. — A    LaDT  asks  when   HEB    HrSBAND,   WHO  IS 
IMPBISOlTBDy    SHALL  BE  DELTTEBED  ? 

Judgment. — ^The  lady's  husband  is  signified  by  %  lord  of 
the  7th ;  he  is  in  25  retrograde,  and  had  the  day  before  been 
in  A  to  0.  The  J  applies  to  ^  of  Tj  retrograde,  then  to  A 
of  % ,  with  a  most  forcible  reception.  From  hence  I  made 
not  many  words,  but  told  the  lady  she  need  not  trouble  her- 
self to  make  friends  to  apply  to  his  majesty,  for  that  I  was 


284 


IKTBODTTCTiaK  TO  ABTWOl^QT^ 


assured  that  either  he  was,  or  would  be,  within  three  days, 
discharged  from  his  imprisonment  by  means  of  a  solar  man, 
a  commander  who  would  release  him  and  furnish  him  with 
what  was  necessary  for  his  conyenience. 

The  truth  is,  he  was  released,  and  the  garrison  where  he 
was  prisoner  taken  the  day  before  the  question  was  asked, 
(when  O  '^^  in  A  to  his  significator),  by  an  honest  par- 
liamentary colonel,  who  plentifully  relieved  him  with  money, 
and  all  convenient  necessaries.  7/  ^  ^^  exaltation,  retro- 
grade, in  a  moveable  sipn,  and  in  A  to  Q,  shewed  short  im- 
prisonment ;  the  more  so,  as  Q  is  lord  of  the  4th,  and  the 
A  80  perfect. 

Fig.  31. 


om 


jyTEOPUcnoir  to  asteologt.  285 

TTie  Time  of  His  Excellency  Robert  Earl  o^  Essex  last 
setting  forth  into  the  West  of  England. 

Here  r:;,  the  ascending  sign,  well  represents  his  form  of 
body,  for  it  was  comely,  &c.  ^ ,  $ ,  and  ? ,  his  mind,  they 
haying  all  dignities  in  the  ascendant.  %  has  also  much  to 
do  with  his  qualities,  being  lord  of  Xs  an  intercepted  sign  in 
the  ascendant. 

I  first  considered  that  the  ])  separated  from  a  A  of  F^ , 
and  applied  to  a  D  of  (f ,  lord  of  his  house  of  substance, 
assistants,  &c.,  and  also  of  the  9th,  his  house  of  journeys. 
This  intimated  he  should  have  but  slender  success,  and  lose 
much  by  his  present  march.  Finding  8  in  the  ascendant,  I 
judged  that  he  would  be  betrayed  in  his  councils  ;  and  seeing 
^l ,  lord  of  his  ascendant,  peregrine,  and  in  his  fall  in  the  2d, 
the  )  in  her  detriment,  and  0  disposed  of  by  J ,  lord  of  his 
7th,  signifying  his  enemies,  and  that  % ,  the  general  signifi- 
cator  of  wealth,  casts  a  Q  to  the  ascending  degree,  I  gave 
this  judgment : — ^that  his  Excellency  must  expect  no  success 
fh)m  this  employment ;  that  he  would  haye  no  honour  by  the 
journey ;  that  he  would  be  extremely  crossed  by  men  of  great 
power  here  at  London,  who  pretended  great  friendship  to 
him;  {%,  lord  of  the  10th and  11th,  being  in  O  to  his  as- 
cendant), that  he  would  be  betrayed  wholly,  and  be  in  danger 
to  lose  all;  that,  in  short,  I  was  extremely  sorry  he  had 
chosen  so  unlucky  a  time  to  set  forth,  &c.  &c. 

The  issue  was  thus,  (for  I  write  to  posterity)  :  he  prospered 
ID  the  beginning,  and  daily  men  of  good  quality  and  authority 
jeered  at  me,  and  derided  my  prediction.  I  was  quite  con- 
tent to  be  abused,  proyided  that  he  might  haye  had  success.  But 
obserye,  that  on  the  8th  September  following,  came  sad  news, 
that  on  the  2d  of  September  this  worthy  man  had  surrendered 
all  his  ammunition  to  his  majesty,  haying  only  quarter  for  his 
soldiers ;  with  some  other  articles,  which  were  dishonourably 
performed,  to  the  eternal  shame  of  the  royal  carty. 


286 


INTEODUOTIOW  TO  ASTBOLOGT. 


Fig.  32. 


JUDGMEISTT   ON  THE   ABOVE   FiGUBE. 

The  above  remarkable  era  in  the  life  of  King  Charles  the 
First  affords  a  striking  illustration  of  the  truth  of  the  rules  of 
the  science  as  laid  down  by  our  author. 

The  King  is  here  represented  by  the  ascendant,  the  }) ,  and 
the  lord  of  the  ascendant,  because  he  began  the  wab,  as  it 
were,  by  this  act.* 

*  "  The  King  liad  lain  most  part  at  York,  or  rambled  into  some  other 
counties  near  adjacent,  until  Aag:ust,  and  done  little  to  any  purpose. 


INTBODTJOTIOK  TO  ASTEOLOGT.  287 

Here  we  find  F?  peregrine,  and  retrograde  in  the  ascend- 
ant, a  decided  testimony  of  ill  success ;  the  £3  is  also  ascend- 
ing, a  sign  of  eyil  and  treachery  to  the  King.  His  second 
house  is  afflicted  hy  ^^  who  is  in  his  detriment,  and  dis- 
posed of  by  5,  the  significator  of  his  adversaries.  The 
King's  ®  is  afflicted  by  d  of  (J,  and  by  D  of  ^ ,  having 
only  the  •)(•  of  7/ ,  who  is  retrograde,  and  in  J*  to  ©,  the 
joint  significator  of  his  foes.  Then  we  find  the  ascendant  in 
(f  to  $ ,  the  significator  of  the  enemy ;  and  also  the  ]>  in  a 
to  the  0,  cadent  and  peregrine.  Each  one  of  his  significa- 
tors  is  afflicted,  and  %y  the  lord  of  the  11th,  his  house  of 
hopes,  and  of  the  10th,  the  house  of  honour,  and  dispositor 
of  }) ,  is  afflicted  by  the  ^  of  O,  by  being  retrograde,  and 
by  being  within  orbs  of  a  (5  of  Ij,  lord  of  the  12th,  the 
house  of  disgrace  and  misfortune. 

Now  as  regards  the  adversary,  we  find  Q  and  $  both 
ruling  the  7th,  and  placed  therein  in  mutual  reception,  Q 
being  in  the  house  of  $ ,  and  $  in  the  house  of  0.  The  Q 
is  also  in  the  7th,  and  $  lady  of  their  2d,  or  house  of  sub- 
stance and  means,  assistants,  &c.,  is  strong  in  her  own  house 
£2:,  angular,  and  no  way  afflicted. 

The  general  significator  of  war^  (J^,  is  in  his  detriment,  and 
is  disposed  of  by  ?,  a  benefic  in  the  7th.  The  lord  of  the 
adversaries  10th,  or  house  of  honour,  is  $ ,  and  he  is  in  re- 
ception mutual  with  the  0,  angular,  and  no  way  impedited. 

For  the  Bcveral  comities  were  generally  nothing  inclinahle  to  his  purpose ; 
in  most  whereof  and  in  every  county  he  came  in,  he  rather  received  petty 
affironts  than  support.  Yet  at  last  he  came  to  Nottingham,  and  there  set 
up  his  Standard,  (with  a  fiill  resolution  for  war),  the  22d  August,  1642, 
under  this  constellation ;  having  some  few  horse  with  him,  hut  in  great 
expectation  of  more  aid  from  the  Welsh,  &c,  whom  he  thought  most 
doted  on  monarchy." — Monarchy  or  no  Monarchy ^  p.  112. 


288  nrrBODTTonoir  to  ASTBOLoer. 

except  being  retrograde ;  and  he  is  in  the  term  of  (},  and  ^ 
is  in  his  term ;  another  mutnal  reception. 

All  these  things  were  decided  testimonies  that  his  Majesty 
should  fail  in  all  his  endeayoars,  and  eyentoally  be  rained. 
The  lord  of  the  12th  being  also  lord  of  the  ascendant,  shewed 
that  he  had  been  himself  his  greatest  enemy,  and  the  caose  of 
his  misfortunes.  The  lord  of  the  12th,  (house  of  imprison- 
ment) being  in  the  ascendant,  shewed  that  he  should  be  im- 
prisoned ;  the  more  so  from  his  being  in  K  •  And  history 
tells  us  how  truly  the  ''  signs  of  heaven"  spoke  on  this  occa- 
sion ;  for  ''  all  the  remainder  of  his  life,  after  this  August 
22d,  1642,  was  a  mere  labyrinth  of  sorrow ;  a  continued  and 
daily  misfortune." 

The  student  will  perceive  that  his  death  was  plainly  fore- 
shewn  by  the  ])  applying  to  •)(•  of  ? ,  lady  of  the  8th,  or 
house  of  death,  from  signs  of  long  ascension ;  in  which  a  •)(•, 
it  is  said,  has  the  same  effect  as  a  Q  in  other  signs.  The  ^ 
moreover  is  with  Antares,  a  violent  fixed  star,  (now  in  about 
7"  30'  t )  which  is  said  to  denote  a  violent  death  ;  which  is 
farther  shewn  by  the  D  of  })  to  Q,  the  latter  bdng'  in  an 
angle.  The  lord  of  the  4th  being  in  ^f  to  the  ascendant,  was 
also  a  token  of  his  death  ;  and  perhaps  r\  being  in  the  8th, 
and  $,  its  ruler,  approaching  Caput  Algols  which  is  said  to 
denote  beheading,  might  intimate  that ;  but  all  such  minute 
points  must  be  left  to  posterity  to  decide,  *  when  the  sdence 
will  be  better  understood. 

The  hour  of  the  King's  death  was  4h.  4m.  p.m.,  dOth 
January,  1648-9,  when  the  heavens  were  as  represented  in 
the  following  figure.  The  student  will  see  that  T^ ,  lord  of 
the  ascendant  in  this  figure,  had  exactly  gained  the  Q  aspect 
of  the  O  at  that  time,  being  in  n  9*^  25' ;  and  that  Q  was 
just  transiting  the  ascendant  of  this  figure ;  and  that  the  cusp 
of  the  10th  (which  denoted  the  King)  is  there  the  place  of  h 


nrrBODUCTiOF  to  ASTBOLoeY.  289 

in  this  figure.  The  ])  is  in  the  29th  degree  of  Vf ,  a  Q  as- 
pect to  the  cusp  of  the  8th,  in  this  also ;  and  11 ,  part  lord  of 
the  ascendant  here,  is  in  (5  with  the  place  of  $ ,  lady  of  the 
8th.  All  these  coincidences  must  he  considered  by  the 
genuine  searcher  after  truth  as  strong  eyidences  of  the  truth 
of  planetary  influence,  as  evinced  in  horary  astrology.  The 
consequences  and  final  result  of  the  mad  attempt  of  this  un- 
hi^py  King  to  make  war  upon  the  nation  were  here  plainly 
depicted  ;  and  it  is  for  the  opponents  of  astrology  to  shew, 
that  these  things  are  merely  accidental  coincidence,  or  the 
fruit  of  chance,  the  deity  they  so  fondly  worship. 


290 


nrrBODTJCTioir  to  astbologt. 


Fig,  33. 


OBSEBTATIOIirS  OS  THB  ABOYE  FiaVBE. 

King  Charles  I.  was  bom  at  Dumfemline,  in  Scotland, 
about  fifteen  miles  from  Edinburgh,  on  the  19th  November, 
1600;  at  which  time  Q  ^^  in  9°  of  ^ .  Hence,  at  the 
period  of  his  death,  fj  was  exactly  in  ^f  to  the  place  of  G 
at  his  birth,  and  ($  nearly  in  D  to  that  place. 

The  cf  o^  ^  to  O  will  ever  be  found  to  bring  trouble, 
sorrow,  disgrace,  and  often  death,  to  the  native.  It  will  be 
seen  that  at  the  time  of  the  King's  setting  up  his  standard  at 
Nottingham,  the  O  was  exactly  transiting  the  Q  of  his  own 


INTBODirCTIOlT   TO  ASTEOLOQT.  291 

place  at  birth  ;  a  decided  cause  of  failure,  discredit,  &c.  But 
'  although  we  mention  these  circumstances,  we  would  remind 
the  student  that  such  transits  can  have  but  little  effect  unless 
evil  directions  be  operating  at  the  time ;  which,  there  can  be 
no  doubt,  was  the  case  in  the  nativity  of  the  unfortunate  and 
Hl-advised  King  Charles  the  First. 

If  we  regard  this  figure  as  that  of  the  exact  commencement 
of  the  Commonwealth,  we  shall  find  that  it  will  point  out 
the  result  of  that  change  in  the  government,  as  it  would  of 
any  other  thing  which  might  then  have  commenced. 

The  })  is  lady  of  the  ascendant,  and  she  is  in  her  detriment 
and  peregrine ;  hence  the  commonwealth  was  not  successful; 
her  being  in  a  moveable  sign,  and  moveable  signs  on  the  as- 
cendant and  7th,  and  such  signs  intercepted  in  the  other  two 
angles,  shewed  that  it  would  not  be  permanent.  The  lord  of 
the  4th  being  also  lord  of  the  12th,  shewed  that  it  would 
come  to  an  end  by  means  of  the  exertions  of  its  secret  enemies  ; 
and  as  f2  is  also  lord  of  the  7th,  and  rules  the  }) ,  it  shewed 
that  its  enemies  would  overthrow  it  at  length.  The  end  of  it 
was  clearly  pointed  out  to  be  when  ])  came  to  cJ  of  the  lord 
of  the  4th,  5 ,  and  to  the  A  in  signs  of  short  ascension  of 
the  lord  of  the  8th,  Tj ,  who  is  very  powerful,  as  being  in  re- 
ception with  5 ,  and  A  with  If.,  and  ruling  both  ©  and  ]) , 
and  being  also  with  3 .  If  we  calculate  from  the  place  of  the 
D  to  the  A  of  ^,  we  shall  find  eleven  degrees  and  a  quar- 
ter, which  would  be  equivalent  to  eleven  years  and  a  quarter  ; 
which,  it  is  well  known,  was  the  exact  dtjeation  or  the 

COKMOirWEALEH. 


u  2 


292  INTEODUCTION  TO  ASTBOLOGT. 

APHORISMS,  BY  ZADKIEL. 

1st.  In  all  cases  of  hearing  nimonrs  or  reports,  recei?ing 
letters  or  messages,  &c.,  if  you  erect  a  figure  for  the  exact 
minute  of  hearing  or  reading  the  news,  &c.,  the  lord  of  the 
3d  in  good  aspect  with  the  cusp  of  the  7th,  or  a  planet  in 
the  7th,  shews  that  the  news  is  true,  and  that  you  are  not 
deceived;  if  he  be  in  evil  aspect,  either  semi-square,  n» 
sesquiquadrate,  or  (f ,  the  news  \a  false, 

2d.  Whenever  any  person  applies  to  another  on  any  busineas 
whatever,  either  by  letter,  message,  or  personally,  the  1st 
house  represents  him  who  is  the  first  mover  in  the  matter, 
who  either  goes  or  sends  to  the  other,  and  the  7th  repre- 
sents the  person  applied  to.  Therefore,  when  a  person 
reads  a  report  in  a  newspaper,  or  elsewhere,  the  7th  shews 
that  person,  because  the  report,  &c.  comes,  as  it  were,  to 
him. 

3d.  If  you  apply  to  a  person  for  goods  of  any  kind,  and  they 
are  promised,  the  application  of  the  lord  of  the  2d  to  the 
lo^d  of  the  8th,  or  a  planet  therein,  shews  the  time  when 
they  will  be  received. 

4th.  If  you  receive  a  bill  of  exchange,  the  figure  for  that 
time  will  shew  whether  it  will  be  paid.  If  ©  receive  a 
good  aspect  of  the  lord  of  the  1st,  it  will  be  paid ;  but  if 
0  receive  any  evil  aspect  of  the  lord  of  the  1st,  it  will  not 
be  paid.    Frohatum  est. 

5th.  The  0  always  denotes  money,  whether  in  cash  or  bills ; 
hvX  property,  whether  in  goods  or  lands,  houses,  &c.,  is 
always  shewn  by  the  lord  of  the  2d,  or  a  planet  therein. 


295 


APPENDIX. 


EXPLANATION   OF   THE  HIEROGLYPHICS. 

The  first  of  these  curious  cuts,  which  have  been  exactly  copied 
from  our  author's  tract,  entitled  "  Monarchy  or  no  Monarchy 
in  Englandy*  is  intended  to  represent  a  great  mortality,  in 
which  the  vast  number  of  deaths  should  so  far  exceed  the 
supply  of  coffins,  that  the  dead  must  needs  be  buried  in  their 
shrouds,  or  merely  stitched  up  in  sheets,  &c.,  as  therein  rudely 
represented. — ^The  second  cut  is  an  Astrological  Hieroglyphic, 
as  may  be  understood  by  the  horoscope  being  introduced 
therein ;  and  the  two  children  or  twins  are  intended  to  repre- 
sent the  sign  Gemini^  which,  in  astrology,  is  known  to  rule 
London ;  and  the  twins  are,  therefore,  intended  to  denote  that 
dty.  Their  falling  headlong  into  the  fire,  describes  the  ex- 
tensive  injury  to  be  done  to  London  by  that  element  fifteen 
years  afterwards.  The  manner  in  which  this  was  foreseen  by 
the  author  has  been  explained  in  our  remarks  on  his  life. 

These  two  Hieroglyphics,  even  if  there  had  been  only  these, 
whereas  there  were  several  others  equally  pointing  out  future 
events,  published  with  them,  would  ever  remain  undeniable 
monuments  of  our  author's  skill,  and  of  the  substantial  truth 
of  the  science  of  astrology. 


296  APPEFDIX. 


DESCRIPTION  OF  PERSONS  ACCORDING  AS  THE 
SIGNIFICATOR  MAY  BE  FOUND  IN  EACH  OP  THE 
TWELVE  SIGNS. 

Satttbn  in  the  Twelve  Siffns. 

Gives  a  ruddy  complexion,  a  spare,  rawboned  person,  full- 
faced,  dark  hair,  not  much  beard,  addicted  to  boasting,  reso- 
lute, quarrelsome,  and  very  ill-natured. 

^  in  0 

Gives  a  person  in  no  wise  comely,  but  a  heavy,  lumpish, 
awkward  appearance,  dark  hair,  middle  stature,  not  well 
made,  rough  in  carriage,  sordid,  vicious,  &c. 

Jj  in  n 
Represents  a  person  of  rather  tall  stature,  dark,  sanguine 
complexion,  oval  visage,  dark  brown  or  black  hair,  ingenious 
but  unpolished,  perverse,  and  generally  unfortunate  in  most 
of  his  undertakings. 

^  in  05 

Denotes  a  person  of  middle  stature,  rather  short  than  tall» 
sickly  and  feeble,  meagre  face,  dark  hair,  languid  eyes  ;  the 
body  sometimes  crooked ;  jealous,  malicious,  and  deceit^  in 
his  dealings. 

^  in  SI 

Gives  a  person  of  moderate  large  stature,  broad,  round 
shoulders,  wide  chest,  lightish  hair,  large  boned,  surly  aspect, 
eyes  sunk,  apt  to  stoop.  Qualities  tolerably  good,  generous 
but  passionate ;  not  over  valiant  or  courageous  when  put  to 
the  test. 


APPBiroii.  297 

Jj  in  irp 
Represents  a  person  of  a  tall,  spare  body,  swarthy,  dark  or 
black  hair,  and  it  plentiful ;  a  long  head,  solid  countenance ; 
generally  nnfortanate;  inclined  to  melancholy,  retaining  anger; 
a  projector  of  many  cnrious  matters  to  little  purpose ;  stu- 
dious, subtle,  reserved;  inclined  to  pilfering  and  indirect 
dealings. 

^2    in  :£i 

Describes  a  person  above  the  middle  stature,  comely  brown 
hair,  oval  face,  large  nose  and  forehead,  clear  complexion ; 
one  opinionated  of  himself,  prodigal  of  expense.  They  are 
given  to  debate  and  controversy,  and  seldom  leave  any  wealth 
at  thdr  death. 

^  in  v\ 

Represents  a  person  of  a  mean  stature,  squat,  thick,  trussed 
body,  broad  shoulders,  black  or  dark  hair,  which  is  usually 
short  and  thick;  quarrelsome,  mischievous;  one  who  will 
undertake  violent  and  dangerous  actions,  though  to  his  own 
detriment. 

^  in  t 

Gives  a  large  body,  brown  hair,  good  make,  tolerable  com- 
plexion ;  obliging  disposition,  not  covetous,  moderately  frugal, 
rarely  profuse,  but  somewhat  choleric.  One  who  will  not 
bear  an  affi-ont,  yet  willing  to  do  good  to  all ;  a  lover  of  his 
firiend,  and  merciful  to  an  enemy. 

Tj  in  Vf 

Personates  a  lean,  raw-boned  body,  dark  or  black  hair, 
middle  stature,  dark  complexion,  small  leering  eyes,  long 
visage,  and  a  stooping  awkward  posture  in  walking.  One 
who  is  peevish,  discontented,  melancholy,  covetous,  of  few 
words,  fearful,  retains  anger,  and  is  of  great  gravity. 


298  AfPXXTDIX. 

^  inxst 

Gires  a  Teasonable  fbll-bodied  person,  a  large  head  and  hce, 
mthGC  inclined  to  corpulency,  middle  stature,  sad  brown  hair, 
a  dear  complexion,  a  sober,  graceM  deportment  Afhble, 
cmirteons  disposition ;  of  an  excellenl^  searching  tuusj,  and 
generally  yery  proficient  in  what  they  undertake  in  arts  or 
sciences ;  a  person  of  a  pregnant  genius,  yet  subject  to  be 
conceited. 

^  in  K 

Describes  a  middle-statured  person,  pale  complexion,  sad 
or  dark  black  hair,  a  large  head  and  full  eye ;  sometimes  the 
teeth  are  distorted.  A  person  not  very  comely.  Actire  to  do 
mischief,  malicious  and  given  to  contention  and  dissimulation. 
An  uncertain,  fickle  person  in  every  thing ;  though  often  pre- 
senting a  good  outside,  yet  fraudulent  and  deceitful  in  the  aid. 
They  are  not  loquacious,  but  deliberative,  and  do  evil  with 
mahce  aforethought.  They  are  said  to  improve  as  they  grow 
aged. 

N.B.  I?  always  gives  bad  teeth ;  and  in  this  sign  they  are 
generally  discoloured  and  rotten. 

JupiTEB  in  the  Twelve  Signs, 

%  in  r 

Describes  a  middle  stature,  but  not  stout,  rather  lean  than 
corpulent,  a  quick  and  penetrating  eye,  a  high  nose,  oval 
visage,  with  generally  pimples  or  a  peculiar  redness  in  the 
face.  They  are  of  a  free,  noble,  and  generous  disposition ; 
very  obliging,  polite,  and  complaisant,  especially  to  their 
friends. 

y.  in  0 

Gives  a  middle  stature,  stout,  well-set  body,  but,  thou^ 


JLFFEin>ix.  299 

compact,  not  banclBome ;  hair  brovn,  rough,  and  curling. 
Complezion  swarthy ;  and  frequently  ike  skin  looks  shining 
or  oily.  The  disposition  reasonably  good,  judgment  sound, 
deportment  good,  behayiour  free  and  charitable ;  fond  of  the 
female  sex,  and  very  humane  and  compassionate  to  the  dis- 
tressed. 

V  »»  n 

Beinresents  a  well-made,  compact  body,  plump,  yet  above 
die  middle  stature ;  sanguine  complexion,  though  rather 
dusky  ;  brown  hair,  and  full,  expressive  eyes.  The  deport- 
ment graceful,  af&ble,  courteous,  gentle,  mild,  obliging,  and 
good-natured.  An  admirer  of  the  female  sex,  and  a  lover  of 
learning.  But  if  7^  be  near  Occulus  Taurus,  (in  n  6«  15', 
with  2*  36'  south  lat.)  he  will  be  addicted  to  women.  And  if 
near  Aldeharan,  (in  n  7"  30',  with  5*  29'  south  lat)  he  will 
be  rash  and  unstable,  inimical  to  himself,  and  disagreeable  to 
others.  If  with  the  BulVs  North  Horn,  in  EL  20»  20',  with 
5*  22'  north  lat.,  he  will  be  rash  and  violent. 

%  in  s 

Gives  a  person  of  middle  stature,  a  pale,  sickly,  and  un- 
wholesome complexion ;  oval  face ;  hair,  dark  brown  ;  body, 
rather  plump,  but  disproportioned.  A  busy,  loquacious  cha- 
racter, very  conceited,  and  i^t  to  intermeddle  with  other 
people's  concerns.  A  lover  of  women,  and  fond  of  the 
water,  whereon  he  is  usually  fortunate.  Unless  ^  throw  a 
good  aspect  to  7^ ,  he  is  not  courageous. 

%  inSi 

Represents  a  strong,  and  well-proportioned,  tall  body ;  the 
hair  is  a  light  or  yellowish  brown,  and  curhng ;  complexion, 
ruddy ;  eye,  full  and  fiery  ;  person,  rather  handsome.  The 
disposition  is  noble-minded,  courageous,  and  magnanimous. 


300  APPXHBIX. 

but  lofty,  and  proud,  and  ambitious ;  one  who  delights  in 
warlike  actions,  is  a  terror  to  his  enemies,  and  who  scorns  to 
bend  to  them ;  fond  of  contending  for  honours,  &c.,  and  full 
of  daring  and  enterprise. 

Gives  a  person  of  a  reasonably  full  stature,  well  built,  and 
what  may  be  termed  handsome ;  sad  brown  or  black  hair, 
ruddy  complexion,  but  not  clear  or  fair.  One  who  is  choleric, 
and  given  to  boasting ;  studious,  yet  covetous,  and  by  his 
rashness  often  meeting  serious  losses ;  he  is  not  easily  imposed 
or  wrought  upon  by  any  person. 

11  in  £b 

Renders  the  body  complete  and  elegant,  a  handsome  form, 
and  inviting  face  ;  upright,  tall  stature,  rather  slender ;  dear 
complexion,  a  full  eye,  oval  face,  Hght  brown  hair,  subject  to 
have  pimples  or  a  rash  in  the  face.  Disposition  and  temper, 
mild ;  behaviour,  winning,  and  obliging  to  all ;  partial  to 
exercise  and  recreation ;  much  esteemed,  and  honoured. 

11  in  v\ 

Gives  a  middle  stature,  stout,  compact  body ;  dark,  coarse 
hair,  fleshy  and  fiiU  face  ;  muddy,  dull  complexion.  Manners, 
proud  and  lofty ;  one  who  is  ambitious,  and  desires  to  bear 
rule  over  his  equals,  resolute,  covetous,  ill-natured,  and  selfish  ; 
very  subtle  and  crafty,  therefore  to  be  very  warily  dealt  with. 

11  in  } 

Gives  a  fine,  taU,  upright  body,  good  form  and  make,  oTal 
face,  ruddy  complexion,  brown  chestnut-coloured  hair,  fall 
beard  and  whiskers ;  but  the  hair  falls  off  early  in  life,  espe- 
cially about  the  temples ;  a  good  eye,  and  much  expression 


APPENDIX.  301 

in  Uie  face.  The  mind  is  just  and  noble  ;  disposition  coor- 
teoos,  humane,  affable,  and  agreeable ;  manners,  polite  and 
accomplished.     One  fond  of  horses  and  hunting. 

Describes  a  small  stature,  pale  complexion,  thin  face,  httle 
head,  not  much  beard,  weakly  person,  dark  brown  hair,  said 
to  be  darker  than  the  beard.  The  mind  is  ingenious,  but 
peevish,  inactive,  helpless,  indolent. 

11  in  txsj 

Personates  a  middle  stature,  well  set,  brown  hair,  clear 
complexion,  rather  corpulent,  compact  make ;  and  one  of  a 
cheerful,  obliging  disposition,  hurtful  to  none;  well  con- 
ducted, and  moderate  in  recreations ;  just  and  merciful,  good- 
humoured,  industrious,  communicative,  inclined  to  be  scien- 
tific, and  but  little  given  to  extravagance. 

11  in  K 

Describes  a  person  of  middle  stature,  obscure  complexion, 
plump,  fleshy  body,  lightish-brown  hair.  Disposition  harm- 
less, studious,  and  possessed  of  excellent  talents  and  good 
acquirements ;  friendly,  kind,  and  inoffensive.  They  delight 
in  good  company,  and  to  be  upon  the  water,  where  if  J 
throw  not  an  evil  aspect  to  11 ,  they  are  found  to  be  fortunate. 

N.B.  11  usually  gives  good  teeth,  and  frequently  an  appa- 
rent mark  in  the  fore-teeth.  In  an  airy  sign,  he  ^ves  broad 
fore-teeth  ;  in  a  fiery  sign,  crooked  ;  in  earthy  they  are  dis- 
coloured ;  and  in  a  watery  sign,  the  teeth  decay  suddenly, 
and  grow  black  and  rotten,  especially  if  he  be  in  (5  with  8 , 
or  in  any  evil  aspect  of  ^  or  (J ,  If  he  be  in  a  watery  sign, 
in  n>  or  ^f ,  5 ,  the  party  has  some  defect  in  his  delivery  or 
speech.     7/  in  an  airy  sign,  the  body  is  more  strong  and  cor- 


302  APPBinoix. 

pulent ;  in  a  fiery  sign  more  square  made,  and  strong ;  in  an 
earthy,  a  well-composed  body,  and  in  a  watery,  more  fat  and 
comely. 

Mabs  in  the  Twelve  Signs, 

(?  in  r 

Represents  a  middle-statured  person,  well-set,  large  boned ; 
swarthy  complexion,  light  hair,  and  curling,  frequently  red ; 
austere  countenance,  and,  if  ^  be  oriental,  ruddy,  and 
smooth ;  bold  and  undaunted,  confident,  choleric,  and  proud; 
fond  of  war  and  dispute ;  one  who  often  gains  by  those  means. 

(?  in  0 

Gives  a  middle  stature,  well  set,  rather  short ;  dusky  com- 
plexion, dark  or  black  hair,  which  is  rough  and  coarse  ;  broad 
face,  wide  mouth ;  he  will  generally  have  some  scar  or  other 
mark  in  the  face,  which  is  often  ruddy,  but  never  fair.  He 
is  gluttonous,  debauched,  given  to  drinking  and  wenching ; 
also  a  gambler,  and  very  quarrelsome,  treacherous,  and  ill- 
natured.  He  is  generally  unfortunate,  but,  if  ^  he  near  the 
Pleiades,  remarkably  so. 

c?  in  n 
Gives  a  tall  person,  with  black  or  dark  brown  hair,  (though 
if  (J  be  in  the  first  seven  degrees  of  EL,  the  terms  of  5  .  it 
will  be  light),  sanguine  complexion,  and  well  proportioned 
body.  He  is  restless  and  unsettled,  but  ingenious ;  unfortu- 
nate in  most  things,  living  in  a  mean  way,  generally  shifting 
here  and  there,  leaving  his  debts  unpaid,  and  exercising  his 
wits  for  a  livelihood;  in  short,  a  chevalier  (Tindustrie,  or 
mere  swindler.  But  good  aspects  of  Q,  If.,  or  ? ,  will  miti- 
gate this  evil  judgment. 


APPJSKDIX.  303 

(?  in  SB 
Describes  a  short  figure^  and  a  bad  complexion,  without 
much  hair,  and  it  brown  ;  the  body  is  generally  ill  made,  and 
crooked.  The  temper  is  sour  and  bad ;  one  who  is  given  to 
sottishness;  a  mean,  servile,  unfortunate  creature;  usually 
he  is  employed  in  some  low  business,  being  incapable  of 
better. 

(?  in  SI 
Shews  a  well-proportioned  body,  rather  tall ;  light  brown 
hair,  oval  face,  sanguine  or  sunburnt  complexion,  large  eyes, 
stoat  limbs,  and  a  brisk,  cheerful  aspect.  A  lover  of  women, 
given  to  boasting  ;  fond  of  robust  sports,  as  hunting,  riding, 
shooting,  &c.,  and  ready  for  warlike  occupation  at  any  time. 
He  dresses  weU,  and  is  a  favourite  with  the  ladies,  but  it  is 
generally  to  his  prejudice. 

(J  in  irp 
Produces  a  middle-sized  body,  and  well  made  and  propor- 
tioned ;  black  hair  or  very  dark  brown ;  the  first  seven  de- 
grees give  lighter  hair  than  the  rest  of  the  sign,  being  the 
terms  of  J;  the  complexion  is  swarthy  or  darkish,  and 
generally  some  scar,  marks,  or  blemish  in  the  face.  A  hasty, 
proud,  revengeful,  and  spiteful  mind ;  one  who  retains  an 
injury,  is  hard  to  please,  conceited,  and  generally  very  un- 
fortunate in  all  he  undertakes. 

(?  in  :0, 

Gives  a  neat  made,  rather  tall  person ;  his  face  oval ;  com- 
plexion sanguine,  and  hair  light  brown,  and  soft,  but,  if  in 
the  last  six  degrees,  his  own  term,  it  is  more  wiry  and  reddish. 
The  disposition  is  brisk  and  cheerful,  but  fond  of  boastmg, 
and  very  conceited ;  one  who  is  fond  of  dress,  effeminate  in 
appearance,  much  attached  to  women,  by  whom  he  is  also 
much  beloved,  and  frequently  ruined* 


304  APPEin)!!. 

Produces  a  well-set  form  of  middle  stature,  rather  corpu- 
lent ;  swarthy  complexion,  hlack  curling  hair,  hroad  and  plam 
face.  The  temper  is  very  imsociable,  and  rash;  they  are 
generally  revengeful,  ungrateful,  quarrelsome,  and  wicked; 
yet  of  good  genius  and  ready  apprehension,  excelling  in  mys- 
tery, &c. 

(S  in  } 

Denotes  a  tall  person,  with  a  well-proportioned  body,  com- 
pact and  weU-made,  sanguine  complexion,  oval  visage;  a 
quick,  penetrating  eye;  the  mind  is  cheerful,  merry,  and 
jovial;  but  disposition  hasty  and  passionate,  high-minded, 
and  lofty,  courageous,  loquacious,  and  fond  of  applause ;  on 
the  whole,  a  good  character. 

c?  inyf 

Represents  a  mean  or  small  stature,  thin,  lean  body,  little 
head,  thin  face,  bad  complexion,  being  sallow  and  obscure ; 
black,  lank  hair.  An  ingenious  mind,  witty,  shrewd,  and 
penetrating ;  generally  fortunate,  and  successful  in  his  un- 
dertakings. 

(J  in  s:: 

Gives  a  well-composed  body,  rather  corpulent,  and  inclined 
to  be  tall  (though  frequently  not  above  the  middle  size),  fair 
or  clear  complexion ;  sandy  hair ;  a  turbulent  disposition, 
and  addicted  to  controversy,  &c. ;  not  very  fortunate  in 
general. 

(?  in  K 

Represents  a  mean  stature,  rather  short  and  fleshy  ;  a  bad 
complexion,  far  from  handsome ;  a  debauched  look  ;  light 
brown  hair ;  sottish  and  stupid ;  a  great  lover  of  women  (if 
in  his  own  terms  or  those  of  J ,  sly  and  artful),  deceitful, 
idle,  and  worthless ;  not  friendly  to  any  one. 


nrrBODTJonoisr  to  abteologt.  305 

N.B.  If  c?  be  in  cJ,  D,  or  ^f  of  ^ ,  or  with  S,  the  dis- 
position  is  very  evil,  especially  if  they  be  in  angles ;  when 
the  person  he  describes  is  very  fierce  and  violent.  He  is  the 
giyer  of  courage  and  resolution,  which,  if  he  be  weak  and 
afflicted,  are  very  deficient.  If  (J  be  in  fiery  signs,  he  b 
hasty  and  choleric  ;  and  there  is  generally  observed  to  be  a 
falling  in  of  the  cheeks,  and  a  lightness  of  feature,  with  an 
angry  look ;  in  earthy  signs,  a  sullen,  dogged  temper ;  in 
airy  signs,  more  free  and  obliging ;  in  watery,  sottish,  dull, 
and  stupid,  unless  he  be  well  aspected  hj  11,  Q,  or  ]) . 

The  Sun  in  the  Twelve  Signs, 
O  in  r 

Describes  a  good  stature,  strong  and  well-made ;  a  good 
complexion,  though  not  very  clear;  light  hair,  flaxen  or 
yellowish,  and  large  eyes.  The  man  is  noble,  valiant,  and 
courageous  ;  delighting  in  warlike  actions  and  enterprise  ;  he 
gains  victory,  is  famous,  and  a  terror  to  his  enemies,  &c. 

O  in  0 

Gives  a  short,  well  set,  rather  ugly  person;  dusky  com- 
plexion, brown  hair,  large  broad  face,  wide  mouth,  and  great 
nose.  A  confident,  proud,  and  bold  man,  fond  of  opposition, 
proud  of  his  physical  strength,  and  one  who  generally  is  vic- 
torious. 

O  tn  n 

Bepresents  a  well-proportioned  body,  above  the  middle 
stature,  sanguine  complexion,  brown  hair.  He  is  affable, 
courteous,  and  kind ;  not  very  fortunate,  as  he  is  so  meek 
and  mild-tempered,  that  he  is  controlled  and  imposed  on  by 
others. 


306  AJppEiirDii. 

O  in  s 

Gives  a  mean,  ill-fbrmed  body,  defonned  in  the  fece,  with 
a  very  unheidthy  aspect ;  the  hair  brown.  A  harmless,  cheer- 
ful person,  but  indolent,  and  not  fond  of  employment ;  one 
who  spends  his  time  in  sports  and  pastimes,  dandng,  &c., 
and  is  greatly  addicted  to  women. 

0  in  ^ 
Gives  a  strong,  well-proportioned  body,  and  a  very  portly 
person ;  sanguine  complexion,  light  brown  or  yellowish  hair, 
a  full  face,  and  large  staring  eyes,  very  prominent ;  there  is 
generally  a  mark  or  scar  on  the  face.  A  very  just,  upright, 
and  honourable  man,  who  scorns  to  do  any  meanness  ;  punc- 
tufd,  faithful  to  his  Mends,  and  magnanimous  even  to  his 
enemies ;  in  short,  a  right  royal  disposition ;  a  very  ambi- 
tious man  withfd,  fond  of  rule  and  authority,  and  given  to 
war  and  dominion,  conquest,  &c. 

O  tn  irp 

Makes  a  person  something  tall  of  stature,  and  slender,  bat 
very  weU  proportioned,  good  complexion,  dark  hair,  and 
much  of  it,  but  not  black ;  the  mind  ingenious,  cheerful,  and 
fond  of  honest  recreations,  especially  agreeable,  convivial 
parties,  &c. 

O  in  £b 

Produces  an  upright,  tall,  and  slender  body,  full  eyes,  oval 
face,  ruddy  complexion,  Ught  hair,  and  frequentiy  a  rash  oir 
pimples  in  the  face.  The  mind  is  honourable,  and  disposi- 
tion good ;  but  the  party  is  always  unfortunate,  especially  in 
all  matters  of  war  or  ambition. 

O  in  vi 
Gives  a  remarkably  square-built,  full,  fleshy  person,  broad 
face,  cloudy  complexion,  dun  or  sunburnt ;  brown  hair.  The 


APPENDIX.  307 

mind  ingemous,  but  the  temper  rugged  and  overbearing; 
manners  disagreeable^  disposition  ambitious;  one  who  will 
not  admit  of  an  equal ;  they  are  fortunate  upon  the  seas,  or 
as  surgeons,  physicians,  &c. 

O  in  f 
Makes  a  tall,  handsome,  well-proportioned  body,  ovfd  face, 
sanguine  complexion,  or  rather  olive-brown  or  sun-burnt; 
light  brown  hair,  but  in  the  first  eight  degrees  of  the  sign  it 
is  darker ;  one  who  is  very  lofty  and  proud-spirited,  aiming 
at  great  things,  austere  and  severe,  and  one  who  performs 
some  honourable  exploits,  and  often  becomes  ennobled,  or  re- 
ceives titles,  honorary  distinctions,  &c. 

O  in  Vf 
Represents  a  mean  stature,  ill-made,  spare,  thin  body,  oval 
face,  sickly  complexion ;  brown,  soft  hair,  not  curling,  and 
if  in  the  first  six  degrees  of  the  sign,  it  is  light  brown  ;  the 
party  is  just  and  honourable  in  his  principles,  a  tolerably  fair 
temper,  and  gains  love  and  friendship  by  his  agreeable  con- 
versation ;  one  who  is  very  hasty  at  times,  and  much  given  to 
women. 

O  t»  ssj 
Describes  a  person  of  middle  stature,  well-made,  corpulent 
body,  round  full  face,  clear  complexion,  and  light  brown  hair 
(in  the  term  of  »2  it  is  dark  brown).  The  disposition  toler- 
ably good,  free  from  malice  or  deceit,  but  yet  vain,  proud, 
desirous  of  bearing  rule,  and  ostentatious. 

O  in  K 
Gives   a   stature  rather  short,  body  plump  and  fleshy,  a 
round  full  face,  and  indifferent  complexion ;    light  brown 
hair ;  in  the  first  eight  degrees  of  the  sign  it  is  flaxen,  and 

X 


308  APPENDIX. 

very  soft :  the  party  is  extremely  partial  to  female  society, 
very  effeminate,  fond  of  pleasures,  &c.,  and  though  harmless 
to  others,  rains  himself  by  extravagance,  debauchery,  gaming, 
intemperance,  feasting,  &c. 

Ventts  in  the  Twelve  Siffns, 

?  in  T 
Describes  a  middle  stature,  rather  tall  and  slender,  light 
hair,  (if  in  the  term  of  11 ,  dark),  good  complexion,  a  pensive 
aspect,  and  usually  a  mark  or  scar  in  the  face,  (often  marked 
more  or  less  with  small-pox,  according  as  $  may  be  afflicted 
or  not).  They  are  generally  unfortunate  both  to  themselves 
and  others,  unless  $  hav#  s  •)(>  or  A  of  7/ . 

?  in  0 
Gives  a  handsome  person,  though  the  stature  is  not  great ; 
the  body  is  extremely  weU  made,  plump,  but  not  gross ;  and 
if  ?  be  veil  aspected,  they  are  very  handsome ;  the  com- 
plexion is  ruddy,  but  not  fair ;  generally  females  are  hand- 
some brunettes,  and  have  much  the  form  and  figure  of  the 
Venus  de  Medicis,  The  hair  is  generally  brown,  and,  if  ? 
be  in  her  own  term,  it  is  very  soft  and  luxuriant ;  if  in  the 
term  of  ^^ ,  it  is  a  shining  black.  The  eyes  are  generally 
black,  and  very  expressive.  The  temper  is  mild  and  winning, 
the  disposition  kind,  humane,  obUging,  &c.  They  generally 
gain  much  respect  from  those  with  whom  they  converse,  and 
are  fortunate. 

?  in  n 
Gives  one  above  the  middle  height,  slender,  upright,  and 
well-made  body.  The  complexion  clear  and  fair,  with  soft 
brown  hair ;  frequently  brown  or  hazel  eyes.  They  are  good- 
humoured,  loving,  liberal,  just  and  charitable;  and  rarely 
guilty  of  any  thing  dishonourable. 


APPENDIX.  309 

$  in  s 

Represents  a  short  person,  a  fleshy  body,  round,  pale,  and 
aickly  face,  with  light  hair ;  and  if  the  ])  be  with  ? ,  and 
they  in  the  ascendant,  the  face  will  be  quite  white  and  wan, 
and  the  hair  very  light  coloured ;  but  if  $  be  in  the  term  of 
(J,  the  hair  may  be  reddish,  and  a  tinge  of  colour  appear  in 
the  cheeks.  They  have  generally  small  grey  or  greenish  eyes. 
The  disposition  is  idle  and  duU ;  they  are  fond  of  low  com- 
pany and  vicious  pleasures  and  pursuits  ;  if  it  be  a  female  of 
the  poorer  classes,  she  is  a  frequenter  of  spirit  shops,  &c. 
They  are  very  fickle  and  timid,  put  the  best  side  outwards, 
and  seem  to  be  in  earnest  when  they  are  not ;  ever  mutable 
and  inconstant. 

?  in  SI 

Gives  a  person  reasonably  tall  of  stature,  well-composed 
body,  clear  complexion,  round  face,  full  eye,  freckled  and  fair 
skin,  hair  reddish,  or  if  in  the  term  of  ? ,  it  may  be  flaxen. 
They  are  petulant  and  passionate,  soon  angry,  and  soon 
pleased  again ;  free,  generous,  sociable,  and  good-humoured, 
but  rather  proud,  and  frequently  indisposed,  though  not 
seriously. 

?  in  Tip 

Shews  a  tall,  well-proportioned  figure,  oval  face,  dark  hair, 
or,  if  in  her  own  term,  sad  brown,  and  a  dusky  complexion. 
They  are  ingenious,  eloquent,  active,  and  clever,  of  an  aspiring 
turn,  but  rarely  successful  in  their  pursuits  ;  generally  un- 
fortunate. 

?    in  £5: 

Describes  an  upright,  tall,  elegant  person,  extremely  well 
made,  with  a  genteel  carriage.  The  face  is  oval,  and  rather 
beautiful,  having  pleasing  smiles  and  beautiful  dimples  ;  but 
they  are  frequently  freckled ;  the  hair  is  brown  and  soft,  but 


310  APPENi>II. 

rather  grows  long  than  plentiful.  They  are  kind,  affectionate, 
and  very  obliging ;  and  generally  well-beloved  by  all  with 
whom  they  have  any  dealings.  If  $  be  in  the  ascendant,  and 
there  be  no  afflicting  aspects,  but  7/  cast  a  A  from  ^>  the 
party,  if  a  female,  wiU  be  a  perfect  beauty. 

?  in  iri 
Denotes  a  short,  stout,  well-set,  corpulent  body,  broad  face 
and  dusky  complexion,  and  dark  or  black  hair,  (unless  ?  be 
in  the  terms  of  (J  or  ?  )  ;  one  who  has  nothing  very  pleasant 
in  the  countenance.  They  are  envious,  debauched,  and 
vicious ;  given  to  contention ;  and  if  ?  be  afflicted  by  ^  or 
^ ,  to  very  disgraceful  actions  ;  and  if  both  1^  and  (J  afflict, 
and  there  be  no  assistance  by  ©  or  1/ ,  they  are  possessed  of 
very  evil  propensities. 

?  in  f 
Represents  a  person  rather  tall  than  otherwise,  well  made, 
clear  or  sanguine  complexion,  fair,  oval  face,  and  brown  hair. 
They  are  generous,  spirited,  aiming  at  no  mean  things,  rather 
proud,  passionate,  yet,  in  general,  good-tempered,  kind,  and 
inoffensive.  They  delight  in  innocent  recreations,  and  are, 
in  short,  very  obliging  fortunate  persons. 

?  in  Yf 
Describes  a  small-sized  person,  short  stature,  a  pale  face^ 
thin  and  sickly ;  dark  hair,  (but  if  ?  be  in  her  own  term, 
a  sad-brown).  They  are  generally  persons  who  love  their 
belly,  fond  of  enjoyment,  not  fortunate,  subject  to  sudden 
changes  in  life  and  strange  catastrophes. 

?  m  r!S 
Gives  a  handsome,  well-formed  person,  clear  complexion, 
rather  corpulent  or  large  body,  brown  hair,  if  she  be  in  her 
own  term,  flaxen.     A  good  disposition,  quiet,  affable,  cour- 


APPENDIX.  311 

teons,  not  at  all  inclined  to  yicious  actions,  peaceable,  obliging 
to  all,  fortunate  in  bis  affairs,  and  respected  by  bis  friends 
and  acquaintance  in  general. 

?  in  K 
Personates  a  middle  stature,  a  fleshy  plump  body,  a  round 
full  face,  with  a  dimple  in  the  chin,  good  complexion,  between 
pale  and  ruddy.  Good-bumoured,  just,  kind,  mild  and  peace- 
able, ingenious,  but  somewhat  unstable,  yet  moderately  fortu- 
nate in  the  world. 

Meecitbt  in  the  Twelve  Signs. 

5  in  T 

Gives  a  mean  stature,  spare  and  thin  body,  oval  face,  light 

brown  and  curling  hair,  dull  complexion.     A  mind  rather 

ill-disposed,  addicted  to  dispute,  to  lie,  steal,  and  many  tricks 

and  unworthy  actions ;  in  short,  a  mere  knave. 

$  in  Q 
Gives  a  middle-sized,  corpulent,  thick  person,  strong  and 
well  set,  swarthy  sun-burnt  complexion,  dark  short  and  thick 
hair.     He  is  idle,  slothful,  one  who  loves  ease  and  gluttony, 
and  who  nuns  himself  among  the  female  sex. 

5  in  n 
Shews  a  taU,  upright,  straight  body,  well  fbrmed,  brown 
hair,  good  complexion,  and  a  very  intelligent  look.  An  in- 
genious pregnant  fancy,  a  good  orator,  a  cunning  lawyer,  or 
clever  bookseller ;  one  who  perfectly  understands  his  own  in- 
terests, and  (if  $  be  not  afflicted)  one  who  is  a  subtle  poli- 
tician, not  easily  deluded  by  the  most  cunning  knave  he  may 
encounter. 

5  in  s 

Personates  a  low,  short  stature,  or  squab  figure,  an  ill  com- 


312  APPEITDII. 

plexion,  a  thin  sharp  face,  small  eyes,  sharp  nose,  dark  hair ; 
one  who  is  given  to  drink,  light-fingered,  ill-natnred,  dis- 
honest, and  very  deceitful  and  changeable ;  a  very  mean  little 
wretch,  if  5  be  afflicted. 

5  in  a 
Gives  a  fall  large  body,  and  good  statare,  dull,  swarthy, 
sunburnt  complexion,  light  brown  hair,  round  face,  full  eyes, 
a  broad  or  high  nose.     A  hasty,  proud,  conceited,  ambitious, 
boasting,  and  contentious  troublesome  character. 

5  in  trjj 
Denotes  a  tall,  slender,  well-proportioned  person,  dark 
brown  hair,  (or  if  5  be  in  the  terms  of  7/  or  T?  >  black  hair), 
not  a  clear  complexion,  a  long  visage,  and  austere  counte- 
nance. A  very  witty,  ingenious,  talented  mind ;  and  if  5  be 
free  from  affliction,  a  profound  scholar  or  linguist,  and  capa- 
ble of  any  undertaking  which  requires  great  ability. 

5  in  €h 

Personates  a  tall  body,  well  made,  but  not  thin;  light 
brown,  smooth  hair,  a  ruddy  or  sanguine  complexion.  A 
just,  virtuous,  prudent  man,  a  lover  and  promoter  of  learning, 
and  having  great  natural  abilities,  and  many  acquired  accom- 
plishments. 

^       f  ^  invi 

Gives  a  short,  mean,  stature,  fiill  and  well-set  but  iU-made 
body,  broad  shoulders,  swarthy,  dark  complexion,  brown 
curling  hair.  Not  any  way  elegant  or  pleasing,  yet  inge- 
nious and  studious ;  very  careful  of  his  own  interests,  fond  of 
the  female  sex,  and  partial  to  company  and  merry  making. 

5  inf 
Denotes  a  person  of  tall  stature,  well  formed,  not  corpulent. 


APPBITDIX.  313 

but  rather  lai^e  boned  and  spare ;  an  oyal  face,  a  large  nose, 
and  raddy  complexion.  A  man  who  is  hasty  but  soon  recon- 
ciled, rash  in  many  things  to  his  own  injury,  yet  well  dis- 
posed, striving  after  honourable  things,  but  seldom  attaining 
them ;  not  very  fortunate. 

5  in  Vf 
Gives  a  mean,  small  stature,  often  crooked  make  and  bow- 
legged,  a  thin  face  and  figure,  dusky  complexion,  and  brown 
hair.  A  very  peevish,  discontented,  dejected,  sickly,  feeble 
person,  yet  active ;  one  who  is  unfortunate  to  himself  and 
disagreeable  to  others,  owing  to  his  suspicious  nature  and  ill 
temper. 

Shews  a  person  of  middle  height,  rather  fleshy  and  corpu- 
lent, a  good  complexion  and  clear  skin,  with  brown  hair  and 
fall  face.  An  ingenious,  obliging  character,  inclined  to  study, 
fond  of  arts  and  sciences,  very  inventive,  and  remarkable  for 
his  talent,  as  well  as  being  a  humane,  kind,  charitable  person. 

^  in  K 
Gives  a  short,  squab,  dumpy  figure,  though  if  in  his  own 
term  or  that  of  F? ,  rather  thin,  pale  face,  brown  hair,  sickly 
look,  and  very  hairy  body.  A  very  peevish,  repining,  fop- 
pish person,  addicted  to  wine  and  women ;  very  effeminate 
and  contemptible. 

The  Moon  in  the  Twelve  Signs, 
})  in  T 
Describes  a  person  of  indifferent  stature,  rather  fleshy  or 
plump,  round  face,  tolerably  good  complexion,  light  brown 
or  flaxen  hair.  The  mind  is  rash,  angry,  ambitious,  and 
aspiring,  often  changing;  and  he  undergoes  various  muta- 
tions in  life  ;  not  often  fortunate. 


314  iLPPEin)ix. 

])  in  0 
Giyes  a  strong,  corpulent,  well-set  body,  rather  short,  pretty 
good  complexion,   dark  brown  or  black  hair.     A  gentle, 
obliging,  kind,  sober,  just,  and  honest  man  ;  one  who  gains 
esteem,  is  much  respected,  and  attains  preferment  according 
to  his  situation  in  life. 

3)  in  n 
Describes  a  tall,  weU-formed,  upright,  comely  person,  brown 
hair,  good  complexion,  between  pale  and  sanguine.  The 
mind  is  ingenious,  yet  crafty  and  subtle  to  excess ;  not  of  the 
best  disposition,  nor  yery  fortunate,  unless  other  good  testi- 
monies by  aspects  of  7/,  O,  or  ?  concur. 

])  in  ffi 

Represents  a  middle  stature,  well  proportioned,  and  fleshy 
person,  a  round,  fiill  face,  pale,  dusky  complexion,  sad-brown 
hair.  The  mind  is  fleidble,  given  to  change ;  a  merry,  easy, 
pleasant,  disposition,  very  harmless  and  peaceable,  fond  of 
good  company ;  one  who  is  generally  weU-beloved,  and  for- 
tunate in  most  afiBairs ;  unsteady,  but  free  from  passion  or 
rash  actions. 

})  in  SI 

Denotes  a  person  above  the  middle  size,  well  proportioned, 
strong,  and  large  boned,  sanguine  complexion,  light  brown 
hair,  large  and  prominent  eyes,  and  full  face.  A  lofty,  proud, 
aspiring  person,  very  ambitious,  and  desirous  to  bear  rule  ; 
one  who  abhors  servitude  or  dependence,  and  is  generally  an 
unfortunate  person. 

^  in  ftg 
Describes  a  rather  tall  person,  dark  brown  or  black  hair, 
oval  face,  rather  ruddy,  but  tolerably  clear  complexion.     An 


APP£NDIX.  315 

ingenious,  reserved,  coyetous,  melancholy,  unfortunate  person  ; 
not  in  general  very  well  disposed,  and  one  who  seldom  per- 
forms any  very  commendable  actions. 

])  in  £J: 

Gives  a  tall,  well-composed  body,  with  smooth,  light  brown 
hair,  handsome  and  pleasant  cheerful  countenance,  fine  red 
and  white  complexion.  They  are  merry,  jocund,  and  plea- 
sant, and  much  admired  by  the  female  sex ;  very  fond  of 
amusement;  and,  if  a  female,  she  is  courted  by  numbers, 
but  yet  unfortunate,  unless  ? ,  the  dispositor,  be  very  strong 
and  well  aspected,  &c. 

])  in  iTt 

Denotes  a  thick,  short,  and  ill-shaped  person,  a  fleshy  ob- 
scure complexion,  dark  hair,  often  black,  (especially  if  ])  be 
in  the  term  of  7/  or  T?  )•  They  are  sottish  and  vulgar,  mali- 
cious, brutish,  and  treacherous ;  and  if  it  be  a  female,  she  is 
generally  infamous  in  her  desires,  and  if  })  be  afflicted  by 
the  D  or  ^  of  Jj  or  (J ,  she  is  openly  scandalous. 

j)  in  f 

Represents  a  handsome  and  well-proportioned  rather  tall 
person ;  oval  face,  sanguine  complexion,  rather  bronzed,  and 
bright  brown  or  shining  chestnut  hair.  The  disposition  is 
good,  open  and  generous,  but  hasty  and  passionate,  yet  for- 
giving ;  one  who  aims  at  great  things,  is  fortunate,  and  much 
respected  by  those  with  whom  he  associates. 

})  «w  Yf 

Gives  a  person  of  low  stature,  a  thin,  small,  weak  body, 
bad  health,  and  feeble,  especially  about  the  knees ;  the  com- 
plexion bad,  black  hair,  and  small  features ;  one  who  is  inac- 


316  APFSmDIX. 

tive>  dull,  not  ingenious,  generally  very  debauched  in  his  con- 
duct, and  held  in  low  esteem  by  his  companions,  &c. 

})  in  rsi 
Represents  a  middle-sized  person,  well  made,  and  rather 
corpulent,  brown  hair,  clear  skin,  and  sanguine  complexion. 
They  are  ingenious,  a£fable,  courteous,  and  inoffensive ;  a 
lover  of  curious  and  scientific  studies,  having  much  invention, 
and  a  person  rarely  guilty  of  unworthy  actions. 

j)  in  K 

Describes  a  person  of  a  mean  or  low  stature,  but  plump  or 
fat,  pale  and  bloated  face,  light  brown  hair,  and  sleepy  eyes  ; 
one  not  inclined  to  action,  unless  of  the  worst  kind ;  unfor- 
tunate both  to  himself  and  others ;  given  to  drink. 

N.B.  K  j)  be  well  aspected,  and  in  a  good  house,  the  dis- 
position is  much  improved. 

EFFECTS  OF  THE  ASPECTS  BETWEEN  THE  SIGNI- 
FICATORS. 

^  d  V. 

If  h  be  significator,  he  gives  the  querent  inheritance  of 
estates,  and  profit  by  means  of  agriculture  ;  his  disposition  is 
extremely  moral  and  grave  ;  he  may  gain  a  fortune  by  mer- 
chandize, or,  probably,  by  preaching. 

If  11  be  significator,  the  disposition  is  not  so  good ;  the 
querent  seldom  meets  with  much  success  in  the  world ;  he 
is  very  niggardly,  and  generally  acquires  property  by  some 
selfish  and  unusual  means ;  though  he  seldom  enjoys  it  like 
other  persons.  He  generally  lives  hated  by  every  one  for  his 
mean  and  deceitful  ways,  and  dies  in  obscurity. 

If  (^  be  in  D  to  the  significator,  and  in  aspect  with  $ ,  the 
querent  is  generally  duped  of  his  property,  and  dies  a  miser- 
able death. 


APPENDIX.  317 

^  d  (?. 

If  ^2  ^e  significator,  the  querent  is  of  a  rash,  turhulent 
disposition,  and  generally  very  unfortunate  ;  very  often  en- 
gaged in  some  public  calling  of  the  lowest  order,  and  fre- 
quently ends  his  days  in  prison. 

K  (^  be  significator,  the  disposition  is  equally  bad,  but  not 
quite  so  rash,  being  more  sly  and  cowardly.  Sometimes  he 
gains  favour  from  elderly  persons,  who  assist  him  with  their 
property,  which  he  generally  loses  in  the  end,  and  becomes 
very  unfortunate ;  especially  if  the  significators  be  under  the 
earth. 

^  d  O 

Signifies  losses  to  the  querent  by  fire,  (especially  if  they  be 
in  a  fiery  sign),  or  by  men  in  power,  who  persecute  him,  and 
confine  him  within  the  walls  of  a  prison  for  some  contempt  of 
the  law  ;  and  he  is  seldom  healthy  or  of  long  hfe. 

If  O  be  significator,  the  querent  is  generally  very  disagree- 
able, deceitful,  mistrustful,  and  unfortunate;  always  losing 
his  property  by  some  speculation,  which  in  the  end  often 
brings  him  to  ruin ;  particularly  if  the  querent  have  any- 
thing to  do  with  the  government,  or  persons  connected  with 
the  state. 

^  d  ? 

Shews  gain  to  the  querent  by  means  of  ladies,  to  a  consi- 
derable extent ;  he  is  much  attached  to  them,  greatly  addicted 
to  pleasure,  and  very  fortunate  where  females  are  concerned. 
If  he  be  a  man  of  property,  he  often  wastes  most  of  it  by 
gaming  or  pleasure. 

If  ?  be  significator,  the  querent  is  very  artful,  sly,  unfor- 
tunate, destitute  of  friends,  often  disappointed  by  death ;  and 
he  loses  considerably  by  persons  older  than  himself,  especi- 
ally if  he  be  in  trade. 


318  APPEiTDn:. 

»?  d  ?. 

If  I2  be  significator,  the  querent  is  subtle  and  crafty,  fond 
of  researches  into  antiquity ;  one  of  much  gravity  and  consi- 
derable learning ;  though  not  always  of  the  most  agreeable 
manners. 

If  y  be  significator,  he  is  dull,  suspicious,  mean,  cowardly, 
calculating,  and  covetous.  Should  he  turn  his  attention  to 
literature,  he  may  gain  some  knowledge,  although  with  great 
labour ;  and  should  he  become  an  author,  his  writings  may 
bring  him  into  some  disgrace. 

h  d  !>' 

If  ^  be  siguiflcator,  the  person  is  restless  and  unsettled  m 
his  purposes,  and  often  changes  his  residence.  He  is  not 
very  fortunate,  though  he  may  sometimes  benefit  by  the 
populace,  and  by  the  lower  order  of  females. 

If  ]^  be  significator,  he  is  poor,  miserable,  and  dejected ; 
of  unpleasant  manners,  and  sullen  disposition ;  extremely 
unfortunate,  and  uncommonly  covetous,  though  possessing 
scarcely  any  property.  With  much  suspicious  caution,  he 
frequently  commits  the  most  unaccountable  errors  in  affiurs 
of  the  greatest  consequence ;  as,  through  excess  of  prudence, 
he  is  very  likely  to  doubt  and  deliberate  in  the  moment  of 
action. 

If  7/  be  significator,  the  querent  is  bold,  proud,  and  ambi- 
tious ;  fond  of  martial  exploits  and  enterprises ;  a  good  soldier 
or  surgeon  ;  though  he  may  lose  much  by  strife  and  conten- 
tion, and  sometimes  receive  wounds  in  quarrels. 

If  (^  be  significator,  he  is  good,  pious,  and  just;  he  is 
eminently  successful  in  the  law  or  the  church ;  and  often 
makes  a  fortune  by  those  means. 


APPENDIX.  3 1 9 

If  1/  be  significator,  the  querent  is  "weak,  servile,  and 
credulous ;  he  incurs  the  displeasure  of  men  in  power,  by 
whom  he  is  much  oppressed,  and  often  ruined  ;  he  has  bad 
health;  and  is  generally  a  vain,  loquacious  character,  in- 
dulging in  fanciful  speculations  about  religion,  and  other 
matters,  for  which  he  is  totally  unqualified. 

If  O  be  significator,  the  power  of  1/.  is  so  much  destroyed 
by  the  power  of  ©,  that  he  has  but  very  little  eflFect ;  though 
the  party  will,  in  general,  be  very  much  given  to  religion, 
which,  if  7/  be  well  dignified  in  other  respects,  and  not  ill- 
aspected,  will  be  sincere,  otherwise  it  is  fanatical  or  hypo- 
critical. 

:v  d  ?. 

If  1/  be  significator,  it  promises  the  greatest  happiness ; 
the  querent  is  highly  favoured  by  the  female  sex,  by  whose 
means  he  gains  great  advancement ;  he  is  rich,  prosperous, 
and  fortunate ;  very  healthy,  and  greatly  admired  and  re- 
spected.    It  shews  great  personal  beauty. 

If  ?  be  significator,  it  denotes  great  beauty  of  person, 
(unless  ?  be  in  iTt  or  Yf )»  riches,  honours,  ecclesiastical 
preferment;  the  person  so  represented  is  truly  virtuous, 
pious,  kind  and  beneficent  to  all,  with  the  greatest  goodness 
of  heart,  and  a  disposition  that  will  command  universal  love 
and  esteem. 

V  d  5. 

If  7/  be  significator,  it  denotes  a  person  of  great  learning, 
a  good  lawyer  or  divine,  of  excellent  abilities  and  much  in- 
formation. 

If  5?  be  significator,  he  is  mild,  humane,  religious,  fond  of 
literature;  possessing  an  elegant  mind,  and  a  gentle,  en- 
gaging disposition ;  he  is  raised  to  eminence,  and  protected 


320  APPEin)ix. 

by  powerful  patrons ;  he  accumulates  great  riches^  and  is,  in 
general,  extremely  fortunate. 

If  11  be  significator,  the  person  so  represented  is  restless 
and  changeable,  and  seldom  sufficiently  settled  to  procure 
much  wealth;  he  is,  on  the  whole,  very  fortunate,  often 
gains  considerably  by  marriage,  and  is  a  general  favourite 
with  the  fair  sex ;  he  is  a  great  traveller,  and  is  eminently  suc- 
cessftd  in  maritime  affairs  and  among  seamen,  shipping,  &c. 

If  })  be  significator,  he  is  fortunate  in  ecclesiastical  affairs ; 
or  among  mercantile  men,  magistrates,  &c.  He  obtains  great 
wealth,  though  he  is  liable  to  losses  frequently  by  canting, 
hypocritical  persons,  who  impose  upon  his  natural  kindness 
and  generosity  of  disposition.  He  has,  however,  too  much 
good  fortune  to  be  injured  by  those  persons  to  any  sericus 
extent. 

(?  d  0. 

If  (J  be  significator,  the  querent  is  in  danger  by  fire,  light- 
ning, or  infectious  fevers ;  it  has  been  said  in  this  case,  with 
great  truth,  "he  has  the  favour  of  kings  and  princes,"  and 
it  may  be  their  frowns  too,  to  his  utter  undoing ;  he  may 
rise  hastily,  but,  perhaps,  to  a  precipice. 

If  O  be  significator,  the  querent  \s  brave,  but  headstrong 
and  violent ;  he  will  probably  attain  some  considerable  rank 
in  the  army  or  navy  ;  but  he  will  be  frequently  wounded,  and 
most  probably  die  in  battle,  or  be  killeM  by  some  accident,  or 
fall  a  victim  to  some  contagious  fever. 

c?  d    ?. 
If  (^  be  significator,  the  querent  is  kind  and  gentle  upon 
the  whole,  though  at  times  rather  hasty ;  he  is  moderately 
fortunate,  extremely  fond  of  women,  and  not  always  very 
particular  as  to  their  respectability. 


APPEITDIX.  321 

If  ?  be  significator,  he  is  wicked  and  debauched,  a  com- 
pamon  of  prostitutes,  firom  whom  he  generally  receiyea  great 
injury;  a  drunkard,  frequently  brawling  in  taverns  or  low 
public-houses;  though  he  may  sometimes  meet  with  good 
fortune,  he  will  quickly  dissipate  whateyer  property  he  may 
possess  in  the  company  of  the  most  worthless  of  mankind. 

<?  d  5. 

If  ($  be  significator,  it  represents  the  querent  as  possessed 
of  considerable  ability,  a  skilful  mechanic,  or  a  good  mathe- 
matician ;  one  of  an  acute  sarcastic  wit ;  if  he  be  in  the  army 
or  nayy,  for  which  he  is  well  qualified,  he  obtains  great  repu- 
tation for  his  brayery,  and  is  distinguished  stiQ  more  for  the 
policy  of  his  measures.  He  is  never  very  scrupulous  as  to 
the  means  he  employs ;  and  will  pay  but  little  respect  to  the 
persons  or  possessions  of  others,  when  he  can  gain  any  ad- 
vantage by  sacrificing  them  to  his  own  interest. 

If  $  be  significator,  he  makes  a  cheat  or  swindler,  a  thief, 
robber,  or  treacherous  miscreant;  a  frequenter  of  gaming- 
houses, rash,  furious,  and  blood-thirsty. 

N.B. — Any  evil  aspect  of  1^  increases  these  evils,  and  a 
good  aspect  of  Q,  7/ ,  or  $ ,  will  much  diminish  them. 

(?  d  }). 

If  (^  be  significator,  it  shews  one  of  an  unsettled  life  and 
temper,  and  a  favourite  of  females ;  he  is  frequently  a  wan- 
dering adventurer,  more  remarkable  for  the  variety  of  his 
fortune  than  his  success  or  abilities.  He  is  likely  to  die  in  a 
strange  country. 

If  })  be  significator,  he  is  a  bold,  enterprising  character ; 
frequently  in  great  danger  of  a  violent  death,  quarrelsome, 
and  given  to  duelling,  &c.  He  may  be  a  good  surgeon  or 
soldier;  and  is  seldom  noted  for  much  humanity.  If  a 
female,  she  is  extremely  likely  to  be  seduced. 


322  APPENDIX. 

©  d   ?. 

K  O  be  significator,  it  denotes  one  of  soft  and  effeminate 
manners,  a  pleasing  address,  a  great  admirer  of  the  ladies. 
He  is  too  much  given  to  extravagance  and  dissipation. 

If  ?  be  significator,  he  is  of  short  life,  unfortunate,  and 
oppressed ;  too  sickly  to  make  much  exertion ;  very  proud 
and  extravagant. 

0  d  ?. 

If  O  be  significator,  it  gives  some  ingenuity,  but  not  much 
sound  judgment. 

If  ^  be  significator,  he  represents  a  person  of  mean  and 
shallow  abilities ;  one  addicted  to  fraud  and  deception ;  in- 
capable of  learning  anything  which  requires  memory  or  judg- 
ment, and  extremely  superstitious.  He  may  succeed  well  in 
trade  or  business,  but  for  study  he  is  wholly  unqualified. 

O  d  J. 

If  0  be  significator,  it  represents  a  restless  and  change- 
able person,  who  aims  at  great  things,  but  seldom  accom- 
plishes them. 

If  J  be  significator,  the  querent  is  extremely  unfortunate, 
and  generally  sickly  and  unhappy,  dejected,  and  oppressed 
by  men  in  power.  He  is  rash  and  violent,  subject  to  bums 
and  scalds,  and  has  frequently  some  defect  in  the  eyes ;  and 
if  the  (5  happen  near  the  Hyades,  Pleiades,  or  Preespe,  he  is 
likely  to  be  nearly  blind.  If  the  J  be  applying,  he  is  in 
danger  of  death,  especially  if  it  happen  in  the  8th  house,  or 
O  be  lord  of  the  8th ;  but  if  ])  be  separating,  the  danger  is 
not  so  great. 

?   6   ? 
If  ?  be  significator,  it  represents  one  who  is  polite,  mild, 
and  courteous,  fond  of  the  elegant  branches  of  literature ;  a 


APPENDIX.  323 

pleasant  companion,  a  fayoorite  of  females ;  and  one  of  an 
excellent  disposition. 

If  $  be  significator,  he  excels  in  any  pursuit  that  requires 
taste ;  a  good  painter,  an  excellent  poet  or  musician,  of  a 
very  humane  disposition,  and  of  the  most  prepossessing  ap- 
pearance. 

N.B.  It  must  be  most  carefully  observed,  whether  these 
planets  haye  any  other  familiarity  at  the  same  time;  for 
should  ^,  T^  >  or  (^  be  in  Q,  it  will  make  a  most  remarkable 
difference.  Indeed,  this  must  be  scrupulously  attended  to  in 
all  cases,  but  especially,  where  $ ,  1^ ,  or  >  may  be  signifi- 
cator. 

?  d  3). 

If  $  be  significator,  it  renders  a  man  very  mutable  and 
uncertain  ;  often  promising,  through  goodness  of  disposition, 
much  more  than  he  is  capable  of  performing. 

If  ]^  be  significator,  he  is  of  an  easy,  happy,  disposition, 
with  little  care  beyond  the  enjoyment  of  the  present  moment ; 
a  great  proficient  in  all  elegant  amusements,  and  of  an  easy 
and  genteel  address. 

If  $  be  significator,  the  native  is  possessed  of  great  abili- 
ties, though  generally  very  unsteady  in  his  pursuits.  He 
frequently  travels  in  some  literary  capacity. 

If  })  be  significator,  the  effepts  are  not  very  different ;  his 
intellectual  powers  are  of  the  first  order  ;  he  is  much  attached 
to  learning,  and  gains  great  reputation  by  his  abilities. 

OF  THE  ^  AND  A  ASPECTS  BETWEEN  THE  SIGNI- 
FICATORS. 

If  T?  be  significator,  it  gives  riches  by  means  of  agricul- 
ture ;  and  he  is  of  a  sedate  and  religious  disposition. 

Y 


324  APPIEITDIZ. 

If  11  be  significatcHr,  lie  is  eztFemely  grave,  and  freqnentlj 
gains  riches  by  legacies  or  mining  concerns* 

I?  -X-or  A  <f. 

If  ^  be  significator,  it  incareases  the  courage  of  the  person 
so  signified,  and  renders  him  more  open  in  his  resentment. 

If  ^  b^  significator,  he  is  pradent  and  cautious,  bigotted 
in  religion,  and,  should  other  aspects  befriend  (J!,  he  may  gain 
an  estate. 

h  -X-  or  A  0. 

If  ^  be  significator,  he  is  generous  and  noble,  though 
somewhat  austere  in  his  behaviour. 

If  O  be  significator,  he  is  ostentatious,  boastful,  and  con- 
ceited ;  he  may  be  expected  to  gain  by  legacies,  or  to  be  suc- 
cessfiid  as  a  farmer. 

J:  -X-or  A  ?. 

If  Y?  he  s^nificator,  he  is  prodigal  and  eztravagimt,  wasting 
his  money  unong  females. 

If  $  be  significator,  he  is  modest,  shy,  and  retired  in  his 
manners ;  he  gains  the  favour  of  elderly  people,  and  some- 
times inherits  their  property. 

^  ^orA  ?. 

If  ^  be  significator,  it  gives  ingenuity  and  subtilty,  though 
his  talents  are  mostly  employed  to  little  purpose. 

If  ^  be  significator,  he  is  very  cautious  and  prudent,  and 
is  addicted  to  the  study  of  arts  and  sciences. 

h  ^  or  A  ]) . 

If  ^  be  significator,  the  querent  is  changeable,  jealous, 
and  mistrustful. 

If  ])  be  significator,  he  is  vain  and  conceited,  mean  in  his 
actions,  though  without  the  excuse  oi  rashness,  as  ke  does 
nothmg  without  much  deliberation. 


APPBISTDU.  325 

If  11  be  significator^  it  gives  bravery,  and  the  spkit  of 
military  adventure  ;  he  is  a  good  soldier,  surgeon,  or  chemist. 

If  ^  be  »gnificator,  he  is  noble,  generous,  and  ambitious, 
and  will  rise  rapidly  in  the  army. 

V  -X-  or  A  ©. 

If  1/  be  significator,  it  makes  one  extremely  fortunate,  and 
very  noble  and  courageous  in  his  disposition. 

If  0  be  significator,  he  gains  money  rapidly,  is  always  res- 
pected, and  possesses  a  most  excellent  disposition. 

1/  -X-or  A    ?. 

If  7/  be  significator,  it  causes  beauty,  love,  riches,  and  real 
goodness  of  heart :  this  is  the  most  fortunate  aspect  that  can 
be  formed. 

If  $  be  significator,  the  person  is  virtuous,  amiable,  of  a 
noble  disposition,  incapable  of  fraud  or  malice. 

If  1/  be  significator,  it  gives  great  learning,  sound  judg- 
ment, and  excellent  abilities. 

If  $  be  significator,  he  possesses  solid  sense,  an  open, 
generous  disposition,  and  real  good  fortune. 

V  -X-or  A  5. 

If  1/  be  significator,  it  makes  a  man  very  fortunate,  be- 
loved by  females,  and  much  respected  by  the  poorer  classes 
of  society. 

If  ])  be  significator,  he  is  just  and  charitable,  sincere  in 
his  fnendships,  and  generous  to  the  full  extent  of  his  means. 

^  ^or  AQ. 
If  (^  be  significator,  it  gives  a  very  noble  disposition,  and 


326  APPENDIX. 

great  mind  ;  it  causes  one  to  rise  rapidly  in  the  army ;  he  is 
uncommonly  successful  in  var^  and  will  gain  much  hy  the 
patronage  of  men  in  power. 

If  0  be  significator,  it  confers  great  bravery,  and  a  high 
spirit ;  he  rises  to  grandeur  by  means  of  his  courage  and  in- 
vincible military  talents. 

c?  -X-  or  A   ?  . 

If  ^  be  significator,  it  causes  lewdness  and  dissipation ; 
his  disposition  is  not  radically  bad,  but  he  is  extremely 
thoughdess  and  improvident ;  he  may  gain  by  females,  for 
he  seems  to  possess  a  fascinating  influence,  which  he  never 
faib  to  exert  to  the  utmost  with  the  female  sex. 

If  $  be  significator,  he  is  handsome,  but  proud,  rash,  and 
inconsiderate;  and  neither  remarkable  for  prudence  nor 
principle. 

(?  -X-  or  A  5  . 

If  (^  be  significator,  this  aspect  gives  great  acuteness^ 
penetration,  and  learning ;  the  querent,  however,  is  crafty, 
rather  hasty,  and  extremely  confident. 

If  5  be  significator,  he  possesses  great  courage,  is  very  in- 
genious in  any  mechanical  trade,  a  good  engraver  or  mathe- 
matician, and  will  succeed  in  any  thing  that  requires  presence 
of  mind,  acuteness,  and  ready  wit. 

If  5  receive  any  aspect  of  ^jj,  he  is  extremely  fitted  to 
become  a  good  astrologer,  especially  if  J  assist  5  . 

(f  -X-or  A   J. 

If  (^  be  significator,  it  makes  one  restless  and  changeable, 
servile  and  talkative;  he  travels  much,  and  receives  much 
assistance  from  females. 

If  D  be  significator,  he  is  very  passionate  and  changeable, 
with  a  high  spirit  and  good  abilities. 


APPBNDDC.  327 

©•X-or  A   J. 

If  O  be  significator,  it  confers  riches  and  honour ;  the 
querent  is  fortunate  with  women,  and  is  much  respected  by 
the  multitude. 

If  })  be  significator,  he  is  proud  and  aspiring ;  he  is  gene- 
rally successful,  but  his  fortune  is  not  permanent,  unless  both 
O  and  ])  be  in  fixed  signs. 

?  ^or  A  ?. 

If  $  be  significator,  this  aspect  gives  ingenuity,  subtlety, 
and  good  nature. 

K  $  be  significator,  the  querent  possesses  a  refined  and 
accomplished  mind ;  he  is  neat  in  his  person,  and  elegant  in 
his  manners ;  a  lover  of  music  and  the  fine  arts  in  general. 

?  -X-or  A  J. 

If  $  be  significator,  it  is  a  very  fortunate  aspect ;  it  shews 
a  person  who  is  much  assisted  by  female  Mends ;  and  one 
who,  though  unstable,  often  obtains  considerable  property. 

K  ])  be  significator,  the  querent  is  gentle,  obliging,  amiable, 
and  genteel  in  his  manners,  and  is  much  admired  by  females ; 
whose  condition  in  life  depends  on  the  strength  or  debility 
of  ?. 

?  ^or  A   J. 

If  5  be  significator,  the  person  signified  is  witty,  inge- 
nious, subtle,  easily  learning  any  thing  to  which  he  applies, 
and  frequently  acquiring  many  sciences  without  any  assist- 
ance. He  is  somewhat  reserved,  and  a  little  melancholy,  but, 
from  his  extensive  knowledge,  he  is  always  a  useful  and  some- 
times a  pleasant  companion. 

If  ])  be  significator,  this  is  the  most  favourable  aspect  for 
learning  or  scientific  speculation. 


328  APPENDIX. 

THE  EFFECTS  OF  THE  D  OR  ^f  ASPECTS  BETWEEN 
THE  SIGNIFICATORS. 

h  nor  ^  X. 

If  \i  be  significator,  it  shews  much  trouble  by  lawyers  or 
the  clergy. 

If  %  be  significator,  he  is  always  wretched  and  miserable, 
idle,  unfortunate,  and  beggarly. 

^   D  or  ^  c?- 

If  Vi  be  significator,  it  is  the  aspect  of  cruelty  and  murder, 
and  the  person  so  signified  is  extremely  unfortunate ;  he  ge- 
nerally lives  a  most  dejected  life,  and  dies  a  violent  death. 

If  ^  be  significator,  the  person  shewn  by  him  is  very  mali- 
cious, treacherous,  and  blood-thirsty ;  one  delighting  in  the 
most  evil  deeds,  yet  very  cowardly,  sly,  and  much  addicted  to 
suicide  and  secret  revenge  ;  of  a  cruel  complexion  :  in  short, 
such  a  character  as  Don  Miguel  of  Portugal. 

^2   D  or  ^  ©. 

If  >2  he  significator,  it  is  the  aspect  of  infamy  and  con- 
tempt ;  the  person  is  prodigal,  ambitious,  overbearing,  hating 
control,  very  disagreeable  in  his  manners,  extremely  unfortu- 
nate, subject  to  the  firowns  of  persons  in  power,  and  often 
meets  a  violent  death. 

If  O  be  significator,  the  person  is  cowardly,  spiteful, 
treacherous,  malicious,  unfeeling,  covetous,  repining,  always 
despising  any  thing  of  kindness  and  humanity;  one  who 
generally  leads  a  life  of  wretchedness,  and  frequently  meets 
with  a  bad  end,  and  sometimes  dies  in  prison. 

^   D  or  ^    ?. 
If  ^  be  significator,  it  shews  dissipation,  and  the  person 
leads  a  most  detestable  life,  connected  with  the  lowest  order 


APFEin)ix.  329 

of  prostitates^  by  whom  he  is  eventually  brought  to  ruin  and 
disgrace. 

If  ?  be  significator,  the  person  is  generally  of  an  evil  com- 
plexion, and  not  very  handsome ;  very  sly,  artful^  full  of  mis- 
chief, and  much  addicted  to  dissipation,  though  not  suspected ; 
mostly  unfortunate. 

^  Dor  ^   ?. 

If  ^  be  significator,  it  indicates  a  thief,  cheat,  or  swindler ; 
a  low,  cunning  fellow,  dy,  envious,  treacherous,  and  mali- 
cious, one  who  is  always  planning  some  scheme  to  deceive 
his  most  intimate  Mends ;  generally  forming  a  bad  opinion 
of  every  one,  and  not  at  all  particular  as  to  speaking  the 
truth. 

If  $  be  significator,  the  person  is  very  artful,  always  in- 
volved in  strife  and  contention,  and  much  given  to  vilify  the 
character  of  others,  by  whom  he  is  tormented  with  lawsuits  ; 
it  also  indicates  pettifogging  attomies,  who  very  seldom  act 
honestly  towards  their  clients. 

^   Dor  ^   J . 

If  12  be  signifioator,  it  shews  a  wandering,  unsettled  and 
changeable  person,  not  of  a  genteel  form,  but  one  who  is 
down-looking,  and  inclined  to  stoop  forward ;  always  very 
fretful,  and  appearing  full  of  trouble ;  not  a  good  disposition, 
nor  to  be  depended  on.  He  seldom  attains  any  high  situa- 
tion, but,  if  he  does,  he  soon  falls  into  disgrace  again. 

If  })  be  significator,  (which  in  some  measure  she  always  is 
of  the  qxtebeitt),  the  person  is  extremely  unfortunate,  always 
in  trouble  with  the  lower  order  of  mankind,  from  whom  he 
receives  many  injuries ;  he  is  mean,  cowardly,  and  very  de- 
jected ;  is  rather  unhealthy,  seldom  living  a  long  life,  and 
generally  dying  a  miserable  death. 


330  APFEKBIX. 

1/  nor  ^  ^. 

If  1/.  be  significator,  it  denotes  violence,  ingratitude,  a  furi- 
ous temper,  and  danger  of  death  by  malignant  fevers. 

If  (J  be  significator,  it  shews  pride,  ingratitude,  insolence, 
and  the  hatred  of  the  clergy  on  account  of  theological  opi- 
nions. 

11  Dor  ^  Q. 

If  11  be  significator,  it  gives  arrogance,  prodigality,  and 
much  vanity,  with  a  great  desire  to  be  distinguished,  which  is 
but  very  rarely  gratified. 

If  O  be  significator,  the  person  represented  wastes  his  pro- 
perty by  riotous  Hving  and  all  kinds  of  extravagance. 

H  Dor  ^    ?. 

If  11  be  significator,  it  shews  extravagance,  dissipation,  and 
all  kinds  of  debauchery  and  intemperance. 

If  ?  be  significator,  the  person  has  many  enemies  among 
the  clergy,  and  the  legal  profession,  magistrates,  &c.,  and  he 
is  equally  void  of  virtue  and  prudence, 

V  D  or  ^   5 . 

If  %  be  significator,  it  gives  trouble,  contention,  perplexi- 
ties, lawsuits,  and,  in  consequence,  indigence. 

If  §  be  significator,  the  person  is  frequently  persecuted  for 
his  singular  religious  opinions ;  his  understanding  is  weak, 
and  he  is  often  involved  in  strife  and  contention. 

11  Dor  ^  ]>. 

If  1^  be  significator,  it  shews  one  of  many  words,  though 
of  poor  abilities  ;  he  is  weak  and  foolish,  and,  if  in  a  public 
capacity,  is  execrated  by  the  multitude. 

If  the  ])  be  significator,  he  is  injured  by  faithless  friends 


APP£in)ix.  331 

and  deceitful  relatives  ;  and  his  property  is  impoverished  by 
hypocritical  fanatics. 

(?  D  or  ^  ©. 

If  ^  be  significator,  it  denotes  a  man  of  great  ambition 
and  yiolence  ;  but  his  fortune  is  too  evil  to  allov  him  to  suc- 
ceed. 

K  the  0  be  significator,  he  is  restrained  by  no  principle  of 
honour  or  gratitude ;  his  affairs  are  always  deranged^  and  he 
makes  use  of  the  most  violent  means  to  retrieve  them.  Such 
a  one  frequently  becomes  a  footpad,  murderer,  or  house- 
breaker, and  is  either  killed  in  some  contest,  or  falls  a  victim 
to  the  laws  of  his  country. 

cf  D  or  ^   ?. 
If  (^  be  significator,  these  aspects  cause  lust,  excess,  pro- 
digality, disease,  and  injury  by  loose  women,  and  complete 
waste  of  fortune. 

If  $  be  significator,  he  is  very  treacherous,  mischievous, 
base,  and  inconstant ;  or  if  it  be  a  female,  she  is  a  prostitute, 
or  very  shameless. 

(?  D  or  ^    ?. 

If  (^  be  significator,  it  shews  one  of  some  ability,  but  his 
talents  are  applied  to  the  most  dishonourable  purposes. 

If  $  be  significator,  it  denotes  a  thief  or  assassin ;  one 
whose  most  solemn  protestations  are  not  to  be  beUeved ;  who 
will  desert  his  benefactors  at  their  utmost  need :  he  is  violent, 
furious,  contentious,  and  despised  by  every  one  for  his  in- 
famous life. 

cf  D  or  ^   ]) . 

If  <^  be  significator,  the  querent  described  by  him  is  a  fit 
companion  for  the  lowest  and  most  unprincipled  of  mankind  ; 
he  is  very  unfortunate,  and  is  probably  a  wandering  vagabond, 
who  travels  over  the  earth  without  a  friend  or  a  home. 


332  APPENDIX. 

If  ])  be  significator,  he  is  ezcessiYely  abusiYe,  malidoos,  and 
treacherous.  He  may  travel  into  foreign  countries  as  a  sailor 
or  soldier,  amidst  innumerable  dangers  and  hardships,  and  die 
by  pestilence,  dysentery,  or  the  sword, 

O  D  or  ^  J. 

If  the  G  be  significator,  the  person  suffers  losses,  trouble, 
and  much  anxiety. 

If  ])  be  significator,  he  is  obstinate  and  quarrelsome ;  he  is 
exfeedingly  ambitious  and  prodigal ;  and  is  sometimes  marked 
in  the  face,  or  his  eyes  are  affected  :  the  latter  is  especially  the 
case  if  O  be  afflicted  by  (J ,  or  either  ©  or  ])  are  with  the 
nebulous  stars. 

?   Dor  J>  J. 

If  $  be  significator,  it  shews  a  changeable,  unsettled  life, 
great  troubles  in  marriage,  and  much  ill-fortune. 

If  the  ])  be  significator,  it  shews  a  dissolute,  extravagant 
life,  attended  with  indigence  and  poverty,  and  much  trouble 
from  females. 

5  D  or  ^   D . 

If  $  be  significator,  it  no  doubt  gives  some  abilities,  but 
such  persons  are  too  unsettled  to  apply  very  closely  to  any 
subject ;  they  are  continually  shifting  their  situations,  (espe- 
cially if  5  be  in  a  moveable  sign),  nor  are  they  very  sincere 
in  their  professions  of  friendship,  nor  very  scrupulous  in  the 
method  by  which  they  may  attain  their  ends. 

If  })  be  significator,  they  have  a  defect  in  their  utterance, 
have  but  little  ability,  except  a  kind  of  low  cunning,  which 
they  apply  to  dishonest  purposes.  But  as  $  is  acted  on  by 
every  planet  having  an  aspect  to  him,  it  will  be  necessary  to 
observe  each  aspect,  and  allow  for  its  influence ;  for  if  $  have 
a  A  of  1/ ,  the  D  of  $  to  >  will  not  be  near  so  evil,  though 


APPEJTDIX.  333 

the  person  will  be  far  firom  sensible,  notwithstanding  that  they 
are  tolerably  honest  and  well-meaning. 

Obsbbtatiok. — The  stndent  must  always  remember,  that 
the  true  character  and  condition  of  the  person  signified  can 
only  be  correctly  learned  by  noticing  all  the  aspects  the  sig- 
nificator  may  receive,  as  well  as  observing  the  nature  of  the 
sign  and  house  it  is  in,  and  the  degree  of  strength  or  weak- 
ness it  possesses,  as  well  as  tho^e  planets  which  aspect  it. 
Thus,  if  the  significator  be  J,  and  he  receive  the  <f  of  ©, 
yet  if  0  be  weak,  and  ^  have  also  a  A  of  If.,  this  benefic 
planet  being  strong,  he  may  judge  that  the  querent  will  suffer 
by  the  evil  influence  of  ©,  by  receiving  a  severe  wound  in  a 
duel,  or  in  honourable  warfare ;  whereas  if,  instead  of  the  A 
of  11 ,  the  O  of  5  occurred,  there  would  be  little  doubt  that 
he  would  be  killed  by  police  officers,  or  die  by  the  hand  of 
the  public  executioner ;  the  latter  especially,  if  0  was  in  the 
1 0th  house. 


334 


APPENDIX. 


A  List  of  Fixed  Stabs  which  mat  be  ooksidebed  in 
HoBABY  Questions  ;  with  theib  appboximatb  Lon- 
eiTUDB,  Jan'.  1,   1835.* 


NAMES. 

LOXaiTUDK 

Latitudc 

Nattob. 

Maohitudb. 

Ram's  following  Horn  . 

o 
0      5 

/ 
21 

o 
9 

5'7N. 

h    i 

Second. 

The  Pleiades   .    .    .    . 

»    26 

55 

4 

31  N. 

s     1> 

Fifth. 

The   Brightest   of    the 
Seven  Stars      .    .    . 

b   27 

50 

4 

2N. 

S     J 

Third. 

Occubu  Taurui,  or  the 

BuU's  North  Eye  .    . 

n     6 

11 

2 

36  S. 

? 

Third. 

Aidebaran,  or  the  Bull's 

South  Eye  .    .     .    . 

n     7 

31 

5 

29  S. 

^ 

First. 

The  BuU's  North  Horn 

n  20 

17 

5 

22  N. 

s 

Second. 

Bright  Foot  of  Gemuii 

S     6 

46 

6 

48  S. 

$    ? 

Second. 

Castor 

25  17 

48 

10 

4N. 

<r  ?  h 

First. 

Pollux 

S  20 

59 

6 

40  N. 

<j 

Second. 

North  AiieBus     .    .     . 

^     4 

45 

3 

ION. 

<r  o 

Fourth. 

Pratpe,  or  the  Claw  of 

the  Crab     .    .    .    . 

«     5 

0 

1 

14  N. 

<?    1> 

Nebulous 

South  AsseUus     .     .     . 

ft     6 

26 

0 

4N. 

S     0 

Fourth. 

Hydra's  Heart     .     .     . 

ft   19 

43 

7 

32  8. 

h   ? 

Second. 

Cor  ft,  the  Lion's  Heart 

ft   27 

33 

0 

27  N. 

<? 

First. 

Vmdemiatria^  .... 

TK      7 

38 

10 

15  S. 

h   ?   5 

Third. 

^m/a,the  Virgin's  Spike 

^  21 

33 

2 

2S. 

?     <J 

First. 

South  Scale    .... 

ni   12 

48 

0 

22  N. 

h     ? 

Second. 

North  Scale    .    .    .    . 

ni  17 

0 

8 

46  N. 

n    <r 

Second. 

Frona  Scorpio      .     .     . 

t     0 

54 

1 

2N. 

h     9 

Second. 

Antares,  or   the    Scor- 

pion's Heart     .    .    . 

/      7 

29 

4 

32  S. 

$     <? 

First. 

Right  Knee  of  Ophiucus 

/    15 

41 

7 

18  N. 

h     ? 

Third. 

Capricorn's  Tail   .    .    . 

«»  21 

15 

2 

33  S 

h 

Third. 

Scheat  Pegan      .     .     . 

X   26 

29 

1 

7N. 

h 

Second. 

*  These  are  the  principal  fixed  stars,  near  the  ecliptic,  to  which  only 
the  pUnets  can  approach.  If  the  student  require  the  places  of  the  stars 
for  the  purpose  of  bringing  them  to  the  midheaven  or  ascendant  in  a 
nativity,  he  may  learn  their  right  ascension  and  declination  in  the  Nauti. 
cal  Almanac  for  each  year,  and  he  may  readily  calculate  their  longitudes 
and  latitudes  therefrom  by  the  rules  we  have  given. 

N.B.  The  longitudes  increase  about  50"  |  each  year :  the  latitudes  do 
not  vary. 


APFE5DIX.  335 

Rule8  to  find  the  Zodiacal  Latitude  and  Longitude  of  a  Fixed 
Star,  Comet,  Planet,  or  the  0,  ^c.  from  the  Right  Aaeen- 
Hon  and  Declination. 

Ist.  If  the  right  ascension  be  less  than  180%  it  is  north; 
and  if  it  be  more  than  180*,  it  is  south. 

2d.  To  the  logarithm  co-tangent  of  the  declination  add  the 
logarithm  sine  of  the  right  ascension,  measured  from  T  or 
£i  ;  but  if  measured  from  s  or  Yf  >  the  logarithm  co-sine  : 
the  sum  (minus  10  in  the  Index),  wiU  be  the  log.  tangent  of 
the  angle  A. 

3d.  If  the  right  ascension  and  declination  be  both  north,  or 
both  south,  add  23*  28'  to  angle  A,  and  it  wiU  give  angle  B. 

4th.  If  the  right  ascension  and  declination  be  one  north 
and  the  other  south,  the  difference  between  23*  28'  and  angle 
A  will  give  angle  B. 

Note. — If  angle  B  exceed  90*,  the  latitude  will  be  of  the 
contrary  name  to  the  declination ;  but  if  angle  B  be  less  than 
90*,  the  latitude  wiU  be  of  the  same  name  as  the  declination. 

To  find  the  Longitude, 
To  the  arithmetical  comp.  of  the  log.  s^ine  of  angle  A,  and 
the  log.  sine  of  angle  B,  add  the  log.  tang,  of  R.A.  from  T 
or  £J:,  (or  the  log.  co-tang  of  R.A.  from  s  or  yf  )•  The  sum 
will  be  the  log.  tang,  of  the  longitude  from  T  or  £^,  or  the 
log.  co-tang,  of  the  longitude  from  ©  or  yf  • 

To  find  the  Latitude. 

To  the  arithmetical  comp.  of  the  log.  co-sine  of  angle  A, 
and  the  log.  co-sine  of  angle  B,  add  the  log.  sine  of  the  de- 
cimation.    The  sum  wiU  be  the  log.  sine  of  the  latitude. 

N.B.  The  arithmetical  complement  of  a  logarithm  is  found 
by  subtracting  it  from  .  .  .  10.00000 

Example.     The  log.  sine  of  13*  10'  is  .  9.35752 

0.G4248 


336 


AFPEKDIX. 


or  it  may  be  found  with  equal  ease,  by  taking  each  figure 
(beginning  at  the  left  hand  or  index),  firom  9,  except  the  last 
or  right-hand  figure,  which  must  be  taken  from  10. 

Thus :  if  from        ....  9.99990 

we  take      .....  9.35752 


It  gives 


0.64248 


die  object  of  this  being  to  perform  each  problem  by  addition, 
in  Ueu  of  the  lengthy  process  otherwise  required. 

Example.— Required  the  zodiacal  longitude  and  latitude  of 
Halley's  comet,  at  noon,  on  the  18th  October,  1835^  Oreen- 
wich  mean  time  ? 

Comet's  right  ascension,  16^  25.31  equal  in  degrees  to 
246o  19',  which,  being  more  than  ISO*,  is  smth.  The  de- 
clination is  0**  35'  north, 

Co-tangent  dec.  .  0*35'         «         11.99219 

Sine  R.A.  from  £:  .  66  19         =  9.96179 


Tang,  angle  A 
From  angle  A  take 

It  gives  angle  B 


89  22 
23  28 

^b  54 


—         IIJ>5398 


Then  for  the  Longitude. 

To  the  sine  angle  A  (arith.  comp.) 
Add  the  9ine  angle  B 
And  Tang.  R.  A.  from  rCk 


Tang,  longitude  from  £!: 
Take  the  long,  of  €^  and  1 
x\  from  this     .         .    J 

It  leaves 


5omp.)    . 
66*  19' 

the 

longi 

0.00003 

9.96039 

10.35791 

64  20 
60    0 

10.31833 

t     4   20, 

tude. 

APPEITBIX. 


337 


Then  for  the  Latitude. 

To  the  log.  co-sine  angle  A  (arith.  comp.)     .  1.95650 

Add  the  log.  co-edne  angle  B        .         .         .  9.61 101 

And  log.  sine  of  the  dec 8.00779 

It  gives  the  log.  sine  of  the  latitude  22*»  6'    =         9.57530 

As  an^e  B  is  less  than  90^,  the  latitude  is  of  the  same  name 
as  the  declination ;  which  heing  north,  the  latitude  is  north 
ako. 

Hence  the  comet  will  be,  at  mean  noon,  Greenwich  time, 
on  the  18th  of  October,  1835,  'n  t  4*  20',  with  22*  6'  north 
latitude. 


338  AfPSKDIX. 

EXPLANATION  OF  TERMS  USED  IN  THIS 
WORK. 


Abscission. — See  "Frustration." 

Afflictum, — ^A  planet,  or  the  cusp  of  a  house,  heing  in  evil 
aspect  to  any  planet,  or  cf  to  a  malefic. 

Angles. — ^The  four  houses  which  commence  at  the  points 
where  the  Q  rises,  culminates,  sets,  and  arrives  at  mid- 
night ;  viz.  the  east,  south,  west,  and  north. 

Application, — The  approaching  of  one  planet  to  another,  or 
to  the  cusp  of  any  house,  either  by  d  or  any  aspect. 

Ascendant, — The  eastern  horizon,  or  the  cusp  of  that  house 
which  represents  the  party  ;  as  the  cusp  of  the  5th  is  the 
ascendant  for  a  child  of  the  querent. 

Aspect, — The  being  placed  at  certain  distances  from  a  planet, 
or  the  cusp  of  a  house  :  as,  if  1^  be  60  degrees  from  ]) , 
then  they  are  both  said  to  be  in  sextile  aspect  to  each  other. 
They  are  found  to  agree  exactly  with  the  angles  of  regular 
polygons  which  may  be  inscribed  in  a  circle.  An  elucidation 
of  this  property  of  all  astrological  aspects  may  be  seen  in 
the  "  Grammar  of  Astrology,''' 

Barren  Signs, — n,  SI,  and  itp. 

Benefics, — The  two  planets  11  and  ?  . 

Bestial  Signs. —  r,  0,  ^,  t  (the  first  half  excepted), 
and  Vf, 

Besieged, — A  planet  being  enclosed  between  two  others. 

Bicorporeal, — See  "  Double  Bodied." 

Cadent, — Falling  from  an  angle  :  these  are  the  3d,  6th,  9th, 
and  12th  houses. 

Cazimi, — The  heart  of  ©,  or  being  within  1 7  minutes  of  the 


APPENDIX.  339 

exact  longitude  of  Q  ;  which  is  considered  a  strong  posi- 
tion, but,  we  think,  erroneously. 

Collection  oflAght, — ^When  a  planet  receives  the  aspects  of 
any  two  others  which  are  not  themselyes  in  aspect.  It  de- 
notes that  the  affair  will  be  forwarded  by  a  third  person, 
described  by  that  planet ;  but  not  unless  they  both  receive 
him  in  some  of  their  dignities. 

Com^iw^tow.— The  being  within  S**  30'  of  the  ©,  which  is 
said  to  burn  up  those  {danets  near  him,  so  that  they  lose 
their  power.     It  is  always  an  evil  testimony. 

Common  Signs. — n,  trp,  t ,  and  K- 

Conjunction, — Two  planets  being  in  the  same  longitude.  If 
they  be  exactly  in  the  same  degree  and  minute,  it  is  a  par- 
tile  conjunction,  and  very  powerful ;  if  within  the  half  of 
the  sum  of  their  two  orbs,  it  is  a  platic  conjunction,  and 
less  powerful. 

Culminate, — ^To  arrive  at  the  midheaven. 

Cu^, — The  beginning  of  any  house. 

Day  House, — That  house  ruled  by  any  planet  by  day ;  as  r::: 
is  the  day-house  of  Ij  ;  f  of  11,  &e.  If  the  question  be 
asked  by  day,  or  while  ©  is  above  the  horizon,  and  it  be 
required  to  know  what  house  Tj  rules,  look  for  x::^  ;  and 
wherever  it  may  be  found,  that  is  the  house  of  Pj . 

Debilities, — See  "  Dignities." 

Declination. — The  distance  any  heavenly  body  is  from  the 
equator. 

Decreasing  in  Light. --^When  any  planet  is  past  the  ^f  of  ©, 
it  decreases  in  light ;  it  is  a  testimony  of  weakness. 

Decumbiture,  —  A  lying  down ;  the  figure  erected  for  the 
time  of  any  person  being  first  taken  ill,  and  taking  to  their 
bed. 

Degree. — ^The  30th  part  of  a  sign  in  the  zodiac ;  or  the  360th 
part  of  any  circle. 

z 


340  APPBKDTX. 

Descendant, — The  western  horizon;  or  cosp  of  the  7th 
house. 

Detriment. — The  sign  opposite  the  house  of  any  planet ;  aa 
(^  in  £2:  is  in  his  detriment.  It  is  a  sign  of  weakness,  dis- 
tress, &c. 

Dignities, — ^These  are  either  essential  or  accidental.  The 
former  are  when  any  planet  is  in  its  own  house,  exaltation, 
triplicity^  term  or  face  ;  the  latter  are,  when  any  planet  is 
in  an  angle,  and  well  aspected,  not  afflicted,  swift  in  mo- 
tion, increasing  in  light,  &c.  The  reverse  of  dignities  are 
debilities. 

Direct, — When  any  planet  moves  on  in  the  regular  order  of 
the  signs,  from  T  towards  Q ,  &c. 

Direction, — ^The  calculating  the  arc  between  two  heavenly 
bodies,  &c.     It  is  a  term  chiefly  used  in  nativities. 

Dispose,  Dispositor, — A  planet  disposes  of  any  other  which 
may  be  found  in  its  essential  dignities.  Thus,  if  Q  be  in 
T,  the  house  of  ($,  then  ($  disposes  of  Q,  and  is  said  to 
rule,  receive,  or  govern  him.  When  the  dispositor  of  the 
planet  signifying  the  thing  asked  after  is  himself  disposed 
by  the  lord  of  the  ascendant,  it  is  a  good  ngn.  To  dis- 
pose by  house  is  the  most  powerful  testimony ;  then  by 
exaltation,  then  triplicity,  then  term,  and  lastly,  face,  which 
is  a  very  weak  reception. 

Double'bodied  Signs, — n,   f ,  )^ . 

Dragon's  Head, — It  is  thus  marked,  8,  and  is  the  north 
node  of  ]) ,  or  where  she  crosses  the  ecliptic  into  north 
latitude.  It  is  always  a  good  symbol,  denoting  success,  a 
good  disposition,  &c. 

Dragon's  Tail, — It  is  thus  marked,  fS ,  and  is  where  the  }) 
crosses  the  ecliptic  into  south  latitude,  or  her  south  node. 
It  is  very  evil,  and  in  all  things  the  reverse  of  a  ;   it 


APPENDIX.  341 

diminishes  the  power  of  good,  and  increases  that  of  eyil 
planets. 

Earthy  Signs. — Q,  trp,  and  yf,  which  form  the  ewthy  tri- 
pHcity. 

Ephemeris. — An  almanack  of  the  planets'  places.  The  best 
is  White's,  until  the  year  1834,  when  it  ceased  to  give  the 
longitudes  for  each  day.  For  horary  questions,  the  best 
now  published  is  Partridge's  Almanack. 

Exaltation, — An  essential  dignity,  next  in  power  to  that  of 
house. 

Face. — The  weakest  of  all  the  essential  dignities. 

Fall. — ^A  planet  is  in  its  fall  when  in  the  sign  opposite  to  its 
exaltation.  It  shews  a  person  in  a  weak  and  hopeless 
state,  unless  the  planet  be  well  aspected. 

Familiarity, — ^Any  kind  of  aspect  or  reception. 

Feminine  Signs. — These  are  all  the  even  signs,  reckoning 
from  Aries ;  as  the  2d,  4th,  6th,  8th,  &c. 

Fiery  Signs,  or  Fiery  Triplicity. — T,  Sl»  t . 

Figure. — ^The  diagram  which  represents  the  heavens  at  any 
time  :  it  is  also  called  a  scheme  or  horoscope. 

Fortunes. — 7/  and  ? ;  and  the  ©,  }) ,  and  ^  >  ^  aspecting 
them,  and  not  afflicted,  are  considered  fortunate  planets. 

Fruitful  Signs. — s,  ii\,  and  X. 

Frustration. — ^The  cutting  off  or  preventing  any  thing  shewn 
by  one  aspect  by  means  of  another.  Thus,  if  $ ,  lady  of 
the  ascendant,  were  hastening  to  the  A  of  (^,  lord  of  the 
7th,  in  a  question  of  marriage,  it  might  denote  that  the 
match  would  take  place ;  but  if  §  were  to  form  an  ^f  of 
^  before  $  reached  her  A  of  that  planet,  it  would  be  a 
frustration ;  and  would  shew  that  the  hopes  of  the  querent 
would  be  cut  off;  and  if  $  were  lord  of  the  12th,  it  might 
denote  that  it  would  be  done  by  a  private  enemy. 

Horary  Questions. — So  named  from  the  Latin  word  hora,  au 


342  APFKETDIX. 

howt,  because  the  time  of  their  being  asked  is  noted,  and 
the  figure  of  the  heavens  for  that  time  is  taken  to  judge  the 
result.  The  word  kara  appears  to  be  derived  from  the 
Egyptian  name  for  the  Sun,  which  Herodotus  informs  us 
was  Horns  or  Orus ;  the  Hebrew  or,  lux,  light,  or  day, 
and  orieMy  eastern,  all  appear  to  have  had  the  same  origm. 
The  Budhists  call  the  Sun  Hiru,  which,  with  its  Braminical 
name  also,  appears  equally  to  have  been  derived  from 
Egypt,  the  first  cradle  of  astrology. 

Horoscope, — The  ascendant  is  sometimes  so  called  ;  but  it  is 
more  generally  a  term  for  the  figure  of  the  heavens  used 
by  astrologers  for  predicting  by  nativities,  mundane  astro- 
logy, and  horary  questions. 

Homes. — The  Twelve  divisions  or  compartments  into  which 
the  circle  of  the  heavens  is  divided  ;  also  the  signs  in  which 
any  planet  is  said  to  have  most  influence. 

Human  Signs, — n,  t*p,  OJ,  and  the  first  half  of  f.  Any 
person's  significator  therein,  shews  them  to  be  of  a  humane 
disposition. 

Impedited. — This  signifies  being  afflicted  by  eyil  stars.  The 
})  is  impedited  in  the  highest  degree  when  in  cS  ^th  Q. 

Joined  to, — ^Being  in  any  aspect. 

Increasing  in  Light, — When  any  planet  is  leaving  Q,  and  is 
not  yet  arrived  at  the  ^;  after  which  it  decreases  in  light. 
The  former  is  a  good,  the  latter  an  evil  testimony,  especially 
as  regards  the  }) . 

Increasing  in  Motion, — When  any  planet  moves  faster  than  it 
did  on  the  preceding  day. 

Inferior  Planets. —  ? ,  ? ,  and  J ;  so  called  because  their 
orbit  is  inferior  to  that  of  the  earth. 

Infortunes.—lgLy  Tj ,  and  (J  ;  also  §  when  he  is  much 
afflicted. 


APPENDIX.  343 

Intercepted, — A  sign  which  is  found  between  the  cusps  of  two 

houses,  and  not  on  either  of  them. 
Latitude, — The  distance  any  star,  &c.,  is  north  or  south  of 

the  ecliptic.     The  0  never  has  any  latitude.     Latitude  on 

the  earth  is  the  distance  any  place  is  north  or  south  of  the 

equator. 
Lights. — ^The  0  and  ]) . 

Light  of  Time. — ^The  0  by  day  and  the  ])  by  night. 
Longitude. — ^The  distance  any  star,  &c.,  is  from  the  first 

point  of  T  9  or  beginning  of  the  zodiac. 
Lord. — That  planet  whose  house  is  occupied  by  any  other,  is 

said  to  be  the  lord  or  ruler  of  that  other ;  and  if  his  sign 

be  on  the  cusp  of  any  house,  he  is  called  the  lord  of  that 

house.     Thus,  if  T  ascend  in  any  figure,  <7,  who  rules 

that  sign,  is  the  lord  of  the  ascendant. 
Masculine  Signs. — They  are  the  odd  signs,  yiz.  the  1st,  3d, 

5th,  &c. 
Medium  CaU. — ^The  midheaven. 
Meridian. — The  midheaven,  or  place  where  0  is  at  noon. 

The  opposite  point,  or  where  0  is  at  midnight,  the  cusp  of 

the  4th  house,  is  the  meridian  under  the  earth. 
Moveable  Signs. — T»  ffi,  ^,  and  yf . 
Night  Houses. — Those  signs  in  which  the  planets  are  stronger 

by  night  than  by  day.     See  "  Day  Houses." 
Nodes. — The  points  where  any  planet  crosses  the  ecliptic  in 

its  path  of  latitude. 
Occidental.--'Bee  "Oriental." 
Order  of  the  Houses. — They  rank  in  power  as  follows : — 1st, 

10th,  7th,  4th,  11th,  5th,  9th,  3d,  2d,  8th,  6th,  12th. 
Orb. — ^That  distance  round  a  planet  to  which  its  influence 

more  particularly  extends.     The  orb  of  the  cusp  of  any 

house,  a  fixed  star,  or  0,  is  five  degrees. 


344  APPENDIX. 

Oriental. — Planets  found  between  the  fourth  house  and  the 
midheayen,  rising,  are  in  the  eastern  half  of  the  figure,  and 
said  to  be  oriental.  When  they  have  passed  the  midheayen, 
and  until  they  reach  the  4th  again,  they  are  occidental.  In 
natiyities,  the  Q  <^d  })  are  oriental  from  the  1st  to  the 
lOth,  and  from  the  7th  to  the  4th,  and  occidental  in  the 
opposite  quarters. 

Peregrine. — Having  no  essential  dignity  whatever.  A  planet 
is  not  reckoned  peregrine  that  is  in  mutual  reception  with 
any  other. 

Platic, — Any  aspect  which  is  not  partile  or  exact,  but  only 
within  orbs,  or  rather  within  the  moiety  of  the  two  planets* 
orbs.  As  if  fj  be  in  r  10^  and  ])  in  £S:  20*,  the  }  is 
still  in  jf  to  Fj  ;  because  the  half  of  their  joint  orbs  being 
10*  30',  she  still  wants  30'  of  being  clear  of  his  f. 

Querent, — ^The  person  who  queries  or  inquires. 

Quesited. — ^The  person  or  thing  inquired  about. 

Radical, — ^That  which  belongs  to  the  radix,  or  root ;  fit  to  be 
judged. 

Reception, — ^The  being  received  by  any  planet  is  being  in  that 
planet's  essential  dignities ;  it  is  a  good  testimony  when 
mutual.     See  "Dispose." 

Refranation, — ^When  two  planets  are  coming  to  any  aspect, 
and  one  falls  retrograde  before  the  aspect  is  complete,  it 
denotes  that  the  matter  will  wholly  fail. 

Retrograde, — ^When  any  planet  is  decreasing  in  longitude.  It 
is  a  very  great  debility. 

Separation, — ^When  any  aspect  is  past,  but  is  yet  within  orbs, 
the  planets  are  said  to  separate  from  each  other.  It  de- 
notes that  the  influence  is  passing  away. 

Significdtor, — The  planet  which  is  lord  of  the  house  which 
rules  the  matter  inquired  after,  is  the  significator  of  the 


APPENDIX.  345 

quedted  ;  the  lord  of  the  ascendant  is  the  general  signifi- 

cator  of  the  querent.     The   ])   is  in  general  his  consig- 

nificator. 
SiffM  of  Lang  Ascetuion^—^,  St,  ffg>  d2z,  v\,  f .     A  ^  in 

them  is  said  to  have  the  effect  of  a  Q,  and  a  Q  that  of 

a  A* 
Signs  of  Short  Ascension. — Yf,  521,  K,  T,  0,  n.     A  A  is 

said  to  haye  the  effect  of  a  Q^  and  a  Q  that  of  a  •)(-. 
Swift  in  Motion. — When  a  planet  moyes  faster  than  its  mean 

motion. 
Table  of  Houses, — ^These  are  necessary  to  erect  a  figure  of  the 

heayens.* 
Term. — ^An  essential  dignity.     (See  page  72.) 
Testimony. — Having  any  aspect  or  dignity,  &c.,  or  heing  in 

any  way  in  operation  in  the  figure  as  regards  the  question 

asked. 
Translation  of  Light. — The  conveying  the  influence  of  one 

planet  to  another,  hy  separating  from  the  aspect  of  one 

and  going  to  the  aspect  of  the  other.    It  is  a  very  powerful 

testimony. 
Triplicity. — ^An  essential  dignity.     The  zodiac  is  divided  into 

four  trigons,  or  triplicities ;    the  fiery,    r,   iX,    /;   the 

earthy,  O,  trp,  Yf ;  the  airy,  n,  £i:,  ras ;  and  the  watery, 

s>  in.,  and  K;  agreeing  with  the  four  elements  into  which 

the  ancients  divided  the  whole  of  the  natural  world. 
Void  of  Course. — Forming  no  aspect  in  the  sign  it  is  in. 

When  )  is  so,  it  denotes  in  general  no  success  in  the  ques- 

tion. 
Watery  Signs.— ^,  IH.,  and  K- 

*  A  complete  set  for  London  and  Liverpool,  answering  for  all  the 
kingdom,  follows  the  Grammar  qf  Attrology. 


346  APPENDIX. 

Watery  Tmplieity. — s,  v\,  and  K* 

Zodiac, — A  belt  which  surronnds  the  earth,  about  eighteen 

d^^ees  broad,  in  which  the  Sun  and  Pknets  ccmtinually 

moTe. 


THE  END  or  INTRODUCTION  TO  ASTEOLOGT. 


THE 

GRAMMAR   OF    ASTROLOGY, 

CONTAINING 

ALL  THINGS  NECESSARY  FOR 

CALCULATING    A    NATIVITY. 
BY    ZADKIEL. 

DEDICATED  TO  THE  UNIVERSITY  OF  CAMBRIDGE. 


NEW  EDITION. 


CONTENTS. 


BOOK  THE  FIRST. 

Chap.  Page 

I.— The  alphabet 357 

lIw-»The  8ig:ii8  of  the  zodiac 358 

III. — ^The  natures  of  the  planets         ....                .  362 

IV.— Of  the  aspects 368 

y. — ^The  qualities  of  the  aspects 370 

YI. — Of  the  figure  of  the  heavens 372 

VII. — Of  the  twelve  houses  of  heaven         ....  373 

VIII. — To  erect  a  figure  of  the  heavens  at  birth ....  375 

IX. — ^To  find  the  planets'  latitudes,  declinations.  &c.  .        .        .  382 
X. — ^To  judge  the  future  fate  by  the  figure  of  the  heavens  at 

the  moment  of  burth    .......  388 

XI. — ^To  judge  of  the  effects  of  directions 404 

XII. — Of  mundane  aspects  and  directions         ....  407 

XIII. — Of  the  mundane  parallels 410 

XIV.— Of  the  part  of  fortune 411 

XV. — Of  the  hyleg  and  the  hylegiacal  places        .  .413 

BOOK  THE  SECOND. 

I. — Zodiacal  directions 415 

II. — ^To  direct  0  to  any  aspect  in  the  zodiac,  except  a  parallel  .  418 

ni. — ^To  durect  0  to  a  parallel  in  the  zodiac  ....  421 
IV. — ^To  direct  the  moon  in  the  zodiac  to  any  aspect  except  a 

parallel 422 

V.-»To  direct  the  moon  to  parallels  of  dedination         .        •  424 

VI. — ^To  direct  the  ascendant  to  aspects  in  the  zodiac         .        .  425 

VII. — To  direct  the  mid-heaven  to  aspects  in  the  zodiac           .  426 


coNTEirrs. 

Chap.  P*g« 

VIII.— Of  mundane  directioni  to  the  angles ;  that  is,  to  the 

aioendant  or  M.  C 426 

IX.— To  direct  the  san  or  moon  to  any  aspect  in  the  world 

(except  parallels)  by  converse  motion  .        •        430 

X. — ^To  direct  the  sun  or  moon  to  any  aspect  in  mondo 

(except  the  parallels)  by  direct  motion                  .        .    432 
XI. — To  direct  the  sun  or  moon  to  mundane  parallels  converse        433 
XII. — To  direct  the  sun  or  moon  to  mundane  parallels  by  di- 
rect direction 434 

XIII.~To  direct  the  sun  or  moon  to  rapt  parallels  ib. 

XIV. — Of  directions  to  the  part  of  fortune  in  mundo  .    437 

XV. — On  turning  the  arc  of  direction  into  time,  to  learn  at 

what  age  its  effects  wHl  be  felt  .  438 

XVI. — Of  secondary  directions 439 

XVII. — Of  revolutions,  lunations,  transits,  &c.  ...        441 

XVIII.— -To  rectify  the  estimated  time  of  birth  to  find  the  true 

time  445 

XIX. — A  judgment  for  marriage  in  the  nativity  of  Lord  Byron's 

daughter    .  .  .  .        .        .        449 


A  glossary  of  astrological  terms 455 

Appendix         .        .  .        *        .        .  .        .        471 


ABBREVIATIONS. 
A.  R.  signifies  Right  Ascension. 
Asc.  the  Ascendant. 

M.  C.  the  Medium  Cceli,  or  Midheaven. 
Mer.  Dist.  the  Meridian  Distance. 
S  D » the  Semi-square  Aspect,  45**. 
SSd»  the  Sesqui-square  Aspect,  135<*. 


DEDICATION. 


To  the  Ui^rviSBSiTY  of  Cambbibge,  the  seat  of  Mathematical 
and  Philosophical  Learning,  where  truth  has  never  heen  veiled 
by  prejudice  or  disfigured  by  ignorance,  this  Htde  effort  at 
opening  a  road  for  the  mathematical  investigation  of  the 
elementary  Philosophy  of  Plato  and  Aristotle,  as  taught  by 
the  "  divine"  Claudius  Ptolemy,  is  most  respectfully  dedicated, 
(in  grateful  acknowledgment  of  the  compliment  paid  him  by 
the  examination  of  that  science  by  several  members  of  their 
learned  body  since  the  first  edition  was  printed)  by  their 

Most  respectM  Servant, 

ZADKIEL. 


PREFACE  TO  THE  SECOND  EDITION. 


The  various  demands  on  my  time,  together  with  peculiar  cir- 
cumstances, have  hitherto  prevented  me  preparing  a  new 
edition  of  this  work,  which  has  been  for  some  time  past 
eagerly  demanded  by  the  public.  The  sale  of  a  large  edition, 
unaided  by  any  attempts  to  build  up  its  reputation  by  means 
of  pretended  Reviews  (which  are  often  merely  disguised  ad- 


PBEFACE  TO  TH£   SECOND  EDXTIOK. 

yertisements)  has  clearly  shewn  that  pubUc  approbation  i« 
now  fixed  upon  the  subject  it  contains,  and  that  eztensiye  re- 
search is  in  progress  into  those  doctrines  for  the  support  of 
which  it  was  intended.  And  I  feel  assured  that,  as  the  former 
edition  has  been  the  means  of  producing  many  hundred 
practical  astrologers,  both  in  this  country  and  in  America, 
some  of  whom  are  to  be  found  in  the  Universities  of  both 
Countries,  so  I  may  safely  rely  upon  the  cause  of  Truth  being 
farther  advanced  by  means  of  the  present  work. 

I  have,  in  this  edition,  abbreviated  some  things  of  less  im- 
portance, and  added  much  matter  interesting  to  the  lovers  of 
truth,  who  may  desire  to  study  the  science  of  Astrology,  as 
relates  to  the  doctrine  of  Nativities. 

As  to  the  enemies  of  investigation,  I  shall  not  waste  a  word 
upon  them ;  for  happily  its  spirit  is  aroused,  aili  wilf  not  be 
readily  put  to  rest.  They  may  rail,  if  they  please ;  but  they 
will  never  be  able  to  "  rail  the  seal  from  off  the  bond ;"  the 
laws  of  nature  can  never  be  destroyed  ;  and  while  the  student 
can  go  forth  with  this  Uttle  book  in  his  hand,  and  by  it  alone 
prove  to  demonstration  ihid  facts  of  the  actual  agreement  of 
those  laws  with  the  principles  of  Astral  Influence,  he  may- 
smile  at  the  impotent  efforts  of  Bigotry  and  Ignorance. 

That  it  may  add  to  the  store  of  true  science,  and  thereby- 
lead  to  the  honour  of  God  and  the  benefit  of  mankind,  is  the 
fervent  desire  of 

THE  AUTHOR. 


INTRODUCTION. 


It  is  not  intended  here  to  enter  upon  any  laboured  argoment 
to  prove  the  antiquity  of  the  science  of  the  Stars:  it  is 
enough  for  my  present  purpose  (which  is  to  teach  the  mere 
outhne  of  the  art^  which  may  be  Med  up  as  the  student  has 
inchnation)  if  I  state  that  Astrology  existed  for  many  cen- 
tones  prior  to  the  Christian  era,  about  which  time  it  appears 
to  have  been  taught  chiefly  by  tradition,  being  handed  down 
firom  father  to  son  by  word  of  mouth,  as  the  art  of  palmistry 
now  is  among  the  gipsies.  There  is  no  good  evidence  of  any 
perfect  system  of  Astrology  having  been  reduced  to  written 
rules,  depending  on  mathematical  principles,  before  the  first 
century;  though  Sir  Isaac  Newton  admits, in  his  Chronology, 
that  it  was  in  existence  nearly  900  years  before  that  period. 
Somewhere  about  the  year  133,  that  celebrated  astronomer, 
geographer,  and  astrologer,  Claudius  Ptolemy,  compiled  his 
notable  work  entitled  ''  The  Tetbabiblos,  or  Quadripartite, 
being  Four  Books  of  the  Influence  of  the  Stars."*  In  this 
work  he  seems  to  have  collected  all  that  appeared  of  import- 
ance to  him  which  was  then  known  of  the  science ;  but  as 
Ptolemy  did  not  devote  the  whole  of  his  time  to  this  study, 
which,  however,  would  require  the  entire  application  of  any 
man's  time  to  make  himself  thoroughly  and  entirely  master 

*  Translated  by  J.  M.  Ashmand. 


354  LNTRODUCTIOK. 

of  it,  we  may  £urly  suppose  that  some  of  the  less  important 
rules  had  not  been  tested  by  him  personally,  but  were  merely 
adopted  as  the  current  opinions  of  the  day.  This  accounts  for 
a  few  of  his  doctrines  being  in  some  degree  erroneous ;  al- 
though the  great  majority  of  them  are  true  to  nature,  and,  if 
rightly  understood,  never  did  or  can  fail,  while  the  system  of 
the  universe  remains  unchanged. 

The  principles  of  Ptolemy's  doctrine  do  not  appear  to  have 
been  very  clearly  understood,  or  acted  upon  free  from  the 
superstitious  trash  of  the  Arab  writers,  before  the  years  1647 
and  1657,  when  Placidus  de  Titu8y  a  Spanish  monk,  first 
published  the  true  system  of  astrology,  founded  on  Ptolemy's 
mathematical  calculations.  His  principal  work  was  printed 
in  Latin,  and  called  the  Primum  Mobile,  or  First  Mover.  "*"  It 
is  remarkable  that  the  only  subsequent  works  of  any  value 
on  that  part  of  astrology  which  is  of  most  importance,  nati- 
vities, were  written  by  an  Englishman,  Mr.  Partridge,  whose 
Almanac  is  still  in  existence.  His  works,  the  Optt^  Re/or- 
matum  and  the  De/ectio  Geniturarum,  are  evidently  made  up 
from  Placidus ;  but  they  are  full  of  the  soundest  doctrines, 
and  contain  numerous  examples. 

No  good  translation  of  Placidus  appeared  in  English  until 
that  made  by  Mr.  JoHir  Coopeb  in  1816  ;  nor  did  any  cor- 
rect copy  of  Ptolemy's  book,  from  which  all  we  know  of 
Astrology  is  originally  derived,  until  1822,  when  Mr.  Ash- 
MAin)'8  excellent  work  appeared.  The  old  translations  of 
Ptolemy  and  Placidus,  especially  those  by  Dr.  Sibly,  are  de- 
testable, and  have  made  numerous  erring  astrologers,  and 
done  the  science  infinite  injury.  All  the  host  of  English 
astrologers,  such  as  Lilly,  Colley,  Sibly,  Gadbury,  White, 
&c.,f  were  immersed  in  error  when  they  treated  on  nativi- 
ties :  they  embraced  the  follies  of  the  Arabian  astrologers, 
*  Translated  by  J.  Cooper.  f  Partridgb  excepted. 


UTTBODUCTioir.  355 

"whicli  consisted  in  mixing  up  the  system  of  divination,  called 
horary  questions,  with  the  genethliacal  art,  or  the  science  of 
nativities ;  and  those  who  open  any  of  their  works  only  lose 
their  time. 

In  short,  there  exists  no  hrief,  cheap,  elementary  work  on 
the  science,  except  the  Grammar  of  Astrology,  It  contains 
nothing  that  is  not  founded  on  actual  experience. 

The  science  of  Astrology  consists  of  four  branches,  or  dis- 
tinct parts,  which  are  essentially  different  from  each  other : 
they  are — 1,  Nativities,  or  the  art  of  foreseeing,  from  the 
figure  of  the  heavens  at  the  moment  of  birth,  the  future  fate 
and  character  of  individuals  ;  2,  Mundane  Astrology,  or  the 
art  of  foreseeing,  by. the  positions  of  the  heavenly  bodies  at 
certain  periods,  the  circumstances  of  nations,  such  as  wars, 
pestilences,  inundations,  earthquakes,  &c.  &c.;  3,  Atmosphe- 
rical Astrology,  or  the  art  of  foreseeing,  by  the  positions  of 
the  planets  at  the  periods  of  the  Sun  and  Moon  being  in 
mutual  aspect,  and  some  other  circumstances,  the  quality  of 
the  weather  at  any  required  time  or  place ;  4,  Horary  Astro- 
logy, or  the  art  of  foreseeing,  by  the  positions  of  the  heavens, 
at  any  period  when  an  individual  may  be  anxious  about  the 
matter,  the  result  of  any  business  or  circumstance  whatever. 
The  Gbammab  of  Astbology  is  intended  to  teach  the 
principles  of  the  science  of  nativities ;  and  to  render  them 
so  plain,  by  divesting  them  of  the  trash  which  designing  or 
ignorant  men  have  introduced,  that  persons  of  an  ordinary 
capacity  and  a  common  share  of  industry  may  examine  and 
decide  for  themselves  whether  there  be  any  truth  in  astrology 
or  not.  To  those  who  consider  it  sufficient  to  decide  without 
examination,  merely  because  others  have  decided  before  them, 
this  work  has  no  recommendation,  inasmuch  as  the  gauntlet 
of  argument  is  not  thrown  down.  But  to  those  who  think 
experience  a  safer  guide  than  reason  in  natural  philosophy, 

AA 


356  IKTBODUCTIOHT. 

it  will  be  peculiarly  acceptable ;  as  herein  they  wiU  find  the 
briefest  possible  rules  and  the  best  decided  principles  for 
judging  which  have  yet  appeared  before  the  world,  as  far  as 
the  author  is  capable  of  forming  an  opinion  from  many  years* 
experience  and  the  examination  of  many  hundred  nativities. 

If  the  cause  of  truth  should  thereby  be  assisted,  either 
through  pubUc  demonstration  by  the  test  of  experiment  of 
the  utter  fallacy  of  the  doctrines  of  Astrology,  or,  on  the 
other  hand,  by  the  conviction  of  the  honest  portion  of  man- 
kind that  the  Almighty  does,  indeed,  choose  the  heavenly 
bodies  as  the  instruments  of  his  will  in  bringing  about  the 
ends  of  Providence,  this  little  work  will  very  well  bear  the 
lash  of  critics,  whose  pride  will  not  beUeve  that  **  There  are 
more  things  in  Heaven  and  Earth  than  are  dreamed  of  in 
their  philosophy." 

In  perfect  but  humble  confidence  in  the  purity  of  his  in- 
tentions in  endeavouring  to  gain  a  hearing  for  Astrology,  the 
Author  can  contemplate  with  perfect  calm  the  bitterness  of 
abuse  of  some  men  who  call  themselves,  par  excellence^  phi- 
losophers; since  he  finds,  by  the  steady  sale  of  the  first 
edition  of  this  book,  and  the  numerous  other  similar  pub- 
lications he  has  brought  before  the  pubUc,  that  there  are 
many  who  will  soar  above  prejudice,  and  resolve  on  seeing 
with  their  own  eyes. 

N.B. — ^To  those  who  wish  to  pursue  the  science  farther,  I 
recommend  the  Tetrabiblos  of  Ftolemy  and  the  Primum  Mo- 
bile of  Placidua,  but  let  them  avoid  the  translations  by 
Whalley  and  Sibly.  The  best  editions  are  those  translated 
by  AsHMAND  and  Coopeb. 


GRAMMAR    OF    ASTROLOGY. 


FIRST    BOOK. 

CHAPTER  I. 
THE    ALPHABET. 

This  consists  of  twelve  characters,  which  represent  the  twelve 
Sigjia  of  the  Zodiac :  they  are  these — 

Southern, 
£b  Libra.  vr  Capricorn, 

in  Scorpio.  vox  Aqaarius. 

f  Sagittary.         h  Pisces. 


NORTHBBN. 

T  Aries.  25  Cancer. 

0  Taurus.  52  Leo. 

n  Gemini.  iiR  Virgo. 


Also  of  eight  others,  which  represent  the  Planets,  as  fol- 
low:— 

^  Herschel.  O  Sol,  the  Sun. 

h  Saturn.  ^  Venus. 

2/.  Jupiter.  §  Mercury. 

i  Mars.  '})  Luna,  the  Moon. 

And  five  others/  which  represent  the  Aspects,  or  positions 
which  these  planets  hear  to  each  other,  as  follow : — 

(5  Cotyunction^  or  when  two  planets  are  in  the  same  place 
^  Seattle f  or  when  they  are  60  degrees  or  two  signs  apart. 
D  Squarej  or  yhen  they  are  90  degrees  or  three  signs  apart. 
A  Trine,  or  when  they  are  120  degrees  or  four  signs  apart. 
g  Oppositionjor  when  they  are  180  degrees  or  six  signs  asunder. 

N.B. — ^There  are  also  some  called  the  new  aspects;  they 
were  discovered  by  the  great  Kepler,  one  of  the  ablest  astro- 


358  GEAMMAE   OF  ASTBOLOGT. 

logers  of  modem  date,  and  are  as  follow  : — The  Semi-Sextile, 
or  30  degrees  ;  the  Semi-Squarey  or  45  degrees ;  Sesquiquad- 
rate,  or  135  degrees ;  and  the  Quintile,  or  72  degrees;  and 
Biquintile,  or  144  degrees.  The  power  of  these  is  not  so 
great  as  that  of  the  old  aspects.  The  Moon's  nodes  are  thus 
marked, —  9  north,  8  south.  Lastly,  there  is  another  cha- 
racter, which  is  called  the  Part  of  Fortune,  0. 

Tlie  learner  should  practise  writing  the  characters,  and  become 
well  acquainted  with  the  signs  which  are  opposite  te  each  other. 


CHAPTER   II. 

THE   SIGKS   OF  THE   ZODIAC. 


These  may  be  divided  into  north  and  south.  The  first  six, 
from  Aries  to  Virgo,  are  northern  ;  the  latter  six,  from  Libra  to 
Pisces,  are  southern:  this  is  because  the  Sun  and  planets, 
when  in  the  first  six,  are  north  of  the  equator,  and  when  in 
the  last  six  they  are  south  of  that  line.  When  the  Sun  ia  in 
northern  signs  he  is  longer  above  the  Earth  than  below,  and 
the  days  are  longer  than  the  nights  ;  when  he  is  in  the  south- 
ern signs,  he  remains  longer  below  the  horizon  than  above^ 
and  the  nights  are  longer  than  the  days. 

Of  course,  when  any  planet  is  in  a  north  sign  it  remains 
longer  above  the  Earth  than  below ;  and,  vice  versd,  when  it 
is  in  a  south  sign  its  stay  is  longer  below  the  Earth. 

Each  point  of  the  zodiac  rises  and  sets  once  every  twenty- 
four  hours,  occasioned  by  the  earth  turning  round  on  its  axis 
once  every  day ;  therefore,  when  any  given  point  be  rising, 
the  opposite  pomt  must  be  setting. 

As  the  zodiac  consists  of  360  degrees  from  the  first  point 
of  Aries  until  you  come  to  that  point  again,  and  as  these  are 


GBAMMAB  or  ASTEOIiOGT.  359 

divided  inlo  twelve  portions  or  signs,  they  must  consist  of 
thirty  degrees  each.  It  is  found  that  each  of  these  signs,  when 
it  rises  at  the  birth  of  an  individual,  possesses  a  certain  influence 
to  produce  a  particular  form  of  body,  and  some  peculiar  mental 
inclinations.  There  is  no  reason  to  suppose,  however,  that 
the  influence  of  Aries,  or  any  other  sign,  proceeds  merely  from 
that  sign  alone ;  but  it  is  more  probable  that  when  that  sign 
is  rising,  the  whole  face  of  the  heavens  is  such  as  to  produce  a 
certaitt  effect.  This  may  be  caused  as  much  by  the  distant 
.stars  in  the  milky  way  (that  large  shining  band  seen  in  the 
heavens  on  a  fine  night,  which  consists  of  innumerable  mil- 
Hons  of  stars,  and  of  which  our  Sun  is  supposed  to  be  one)  as 
by  any  others.  In  fact,  Ptolemy  speaks  of  these  effects  being 
produced  by  the  ''ambient,"  which  means  the  entire  of  the 
heavens,  and  not  the  ascending  sign  alone. 

GENERAL  BULE  FOB  JUDOrNG  THE  EFFECT  OP  EACH  SI6K.* 

Aries. — This  sign  produces  a  dry,  lean  body,  middle  stature, 
strong  limbs,  large  bones,  long  and  meagre  face,  sharp  sight, 
neck  rather  long  and  scraggy,  dark  eyebrows,  swarthy  com- 
plexion, hair  reddish  and  wiry,  thick  shoulders ;  disposition 
angry  and  violent  as  the  Ram, 

Taurus, — A  short,  full,  well-set  person ;  full  face  and  eyes, 
thick  neck  and  lips,  vnde  nose  and  mouth,  swarthy  shining 
face ;  a  short,  thick,  broad  hand ;  large  shoulders ;  dark, 
harsh,  and  generally  curling  hair.  Given  to  eating,  un- 
feeling, melancholy,  and  slow  to  anger,  but  when  enraged, 
furious  as  the  Bull. 

Gemini. — A  tall,  upright,  well-made  body,  with  good  carriage, 
long  arms,  but  hands  and  feet  generally  short  and  fleshy ; 
hair  blackish,  eyes  hazel,  and  having  a  sharp,  quick,  pene- 

*  These  must  not  be  confounded  with  the  constellations  of  the  same 
names. 


360  GBAMMAR   OP  ASTEOLOGT. 

trating  wanton  look  :  if  a  female,  she  has  very  fine  eyes ; 
body  strong  and  active;  step  smart  and  quick;  under- 
standing good ;  imagination  powerful ;  said  to  beget  or 
bear  Twins.* 

Cancer. — ^A  short,  small  person,  with  pale,  sickly  complexion, 
round  full  face,  and  generally  small  features ;  sad  brown 
hair,  small  grey  eyes ;  the  upper  part  of  the  body  larger 
than  the  lower ;  constitution  weakly :  if  a  female,  prolific. 
Dull  and  timid  as  the  Crab, 

Leo. — A  large  noble  person  ;  full,  tall  stature,  well  propor- 
tioned ;  shoulders  broad  and  well  set ;  hair  often  yellowish 
and  bushy,  or  curhng ;  eyes  large  and  staring,  yet  quick- 
sighted,  if  no  evil  planets  ascend ;  countenance  fierce  : 
head  round,  complexion  ruddy ;  step  firm  and  majestic  ;  if 
O  be  rising,  a  haughty  air ;  disposition  free  and  courteous ; 
heart  bold  and  courageous  as  the  Lion. 

Virgo. — Middle  stature,  inclined  to  be  tall ;  slender  figure, 
neat  and  well  formed ;  dark  brown  hair  ;  dark  complexion, 
well  favoured,  but  not  handsome ;  face  more  round  than 
oval ;  voice  weak  and  unmusical ;  mind  ingenious ;  plea- 
sant in  conversation ;  given  to  study ;  fond  of  learning ; 
but  fickle,  and  bashful  as  a  Virgin. 

Libra. — Tall  and  elegantly  formed,  rather  slender;  hair 
smooth,  and  a  light  auburn  or  fiaxen ;  face  round  and 
lovely,  having  great  beauty ;  fine,  clear  red  and  white  com- 
plexion, which  in  old  age  becomes  pimpled  or  ruddy ;  eyes 
generally  blue  and  beautiful ;  mind  well  principled ;  tem- 
per even  as  the  Balance. 

Scorpio. — Thick,  well-set,  middle-sized  person;  strong  and 
robust;  face  somewhat  broad  and  square;  complexion 
dusky ;  hair  dark  brown,  curling,  bushy,  and  plentiful ; 
thick  neck ;  coarse  hairy  legs,  often  bow-legged,  or  club- 

*  If  ^2  or  2|.  be  setting,  the  shoulders  will  be  large  and  uncomely. 


aBi.MMi.B  OF  ASTBOLOGT.  361 

footed,  or  ill-made  feet ;  mind  thoughtful,  reserved  ;  active 
and  deceitful  as  the  Scorpion, 

Sagittarius. — ^Well-formed  person,  rather  tall ;  strong  active 
body ;  rather  long  face  and  handsome,  with  generally  a 
straight  Grecian  nose ;  fine  clear  eyes,  and  good  ruddy 
complexion ;  chestnut-coloured  hair,  growing  off  the  tem- 
ples ;  inclined  to  baldness ;  daring  and  intrepid,  fond  of 
horses  and  hunting, 

Capricorn, — Short,  slender,  ill-formed  person ;  long  thin  face ; 
generally  ugly ;  chin  long  and  pointed,  protruding  like  that 
of  the  goat ;  thin  beard ;  neck  long  and  small ;  hair  black 
and  lanky  ;  narrow  breast ;  weak  in  the  knees,  with  crooked 
ill-formed  legs  ;  the  native  has  a  skippish  manner,  jumping 
forward  when  addressing  any  one,  and  they  nod  on  one 
side  like  a  goat  when  it  butts ;  mind  subtle  and  witty,  but 
capricious  as  Capra  the  Goat, 

Aquarius. — Person  stout,  well-set,  and  comely,  rather  tall,  not 
very,  but  never  short ;  robust,  strong,  healthy  appearance  ; 
a  long  and  rather  fleshy  face  ;  distorted  teeth  if  ^2  be  as- 
cending ;  complexion  clear  and  delicate,  somewhat  san- 
guine ;  hazel  eyes ;  sandy  or  darkish  flaxen  hair.  This 
sign  gives  more  beauty  than  any  other,  except  Libra  ;  dis- 
position gentle  and  benevolent ;  said  to  take  delight  on  the 
Water. 

Pisces. — Person  short ;  large  pale  and  fleshy  face ;  the  face 
is  always  fuU,  but  sometimes  sanguine  in  complexion ;  if 
0  be  rising,  a  good  colour  ;  a  stooping,  heavy  gait,  hold- 
ing down  the  head  when  walking.  If  a  female,  the  face 
is  generally  plump,  and  the  skin  clear  and  lucid,  but  very 
white  ;  hair  dark  ;  and  round  shouldered,  unless  Q  be 
rising  ;  eyes  sleepy  ;  shoulders  round ;  arms  and  legs  short 
and  fin-like  ;  ill-made  feet ;  disposition  indolent,  and  too 
often  given  to  drink,  like  the  Fishes. 


362  GBAMMAB  OF  ASTBOLQaX. 

Catttioit. — These  descriptions  are  rarely  to  be  met  with 
exactly.  Every  planet  which  throws  an  aspect  to  the  ascend- 
ant has  an  influence  both  on  mind  and  body ;  and  if  any 
planet  be  rising,  it  impresses  its  own  charact^  most  power- 
fully on  both.  If  the  latter  part  of  a  sign  be  on  the  cusp  of 
the  ascendant,  a  portion  of  the  next  sign  must  be  in  the  as- 
cendant ;  and  the  native  will  partake  of  both  influences.  A 
person,  for  instance,  having  the  latter  part  of  Sagittary  rising, 
and  the  whole  of  Capricorn  in  the  ascendant,  may  have  a  fine 
head  of  hair  and  handsome  forehead,  but  the  rest  of  the  face 
and  person  extremely  ugly.  The  disposition  also  depends 
dhiefiy  on  the  Moon  and  Mercury. 


CHAPTER  III. 

THE  NATITEES   OF  THE   PLANETS. 

HerscheL — ^This  is  the  most  distant  planet  horn  the  Son ; 
he  takes  84  years  to  go  through  the  12  signs.  He  is  fre- 
quently retrograde,  appearing  to  go  backward  in  the  heavens. 
His  diameter  is  to  that  of  our  Earth  as  4.332  to  1 . 

The  nature  of  Herschel  is  extremely  evil.  If  ascending 
at  the  time  of  birth,  he  causes  the  native  to  be  of  very 
eccentric  disposition,  pursuing  extraordinary  and  uncommon 
objects  ;  one  who  despises  the  track  of  custom,  and  is  very 
abrupt  in  his  manners.  Whatever  good  he  may  produce, 
when  weU  aspected  or  situated,  will  be  of  a  sudden  de- 
scription, and  quite  out  of  the  common  course  of  things. 
Persons  whose  minds  are  influenced  by  this  planet  are  un- 
settled in  life,  partial  to  travelling,  witnessing  many  strange 
scenes,  very  romantic  and  extraordinary  in  their  ideas,  and 
given  to  the  study  of  antiquity ;  yet  likely  to  strike  out 
mauy  novelties. 


gHAMMAB  OE  ASTBOLOaT.  363 

Saturn. — ^This  planet  is  next  to  Herschel.  He  is  at  a  great 
distance  from  the  Sun,  and  exceeds  this  Earth  in  bulk 
nearly  1000  times.  He  goes  through  the  zodiac  in  29  years 
and  a  half;  his  diameter  is  to  that  of  the  Earth  as 
9.987  to  1. 

The  nature  of  Saturn  is  far  more  evil  than  that  of  Hers- 
chel :  he  is  called  the  Greater  Infortune,  and  he  is  undoubt- 
edly the  cause  (subservient  to  the  will  of  Providence)  of 
the  greater  portion  of  human  suffering.  When  he  is 
rising  or  setting  at  birth,  the  person  bom  will  suffer  much 
lingering  sickness,  and  be  very  subject  to  blows,  bruises, 
and  falls.  If  he  be  on  the  meridian,  or  coming  to  the 
meridian,  he  causes  perpetual  trouble  and  disgrace :  all 
the  native's  affairs  go  wrong,  and,  unless  there  be  some 
very  strong  aspects  of  other  planets  to  counteract  this  evil 
position,  the  native  is  the  complete  child  of  misfortune. 
If  he  be  in  the  opposite  situation,  that  is,  near  the  north 
meridian,  or  cusp  of  the  fourth  house,  his  effects  are  nearly 
as  evil.  Persons  bom  under  his  influence  are  nervous, 
fearful,  bashful,  cowardly,  melancholy,  and  given  to  shed 
tears.  They  suffer  from  chronic  diseases,  and  are  liable  to 
mental  infirmities.  Their  dispositions  are  thoughtful,  ma- 
licious, and  reserved  ;  they  are  firm  and  obstinate  in  their 
opinions,  but  adhere  strongly  to  their  attachments. 

Jupiter  or  Jove  is  next  to  Saturn  in  the  solar  system.  He  is 
the  largest  of  all,  in  bulk  exceeding  that  of  the  Earth 
nearly  1300  times.  He  is  very  nearly  twelve  years  in  going 
round  the  zodiac  :  his  diameter  is  to  that  of  the  Earth  as 
10.86  to  1. 

His  nature  is  eminently  benefic,  and  he  is  called  the 
Greater  Fortune.  When  rising  at  birth,  he  confers  much 
strength  of  constitution,  enabling  the  native  to  overcome 
very  evil  directions,  which  would  otherwise  prove  fatal. 


364  GBAMMAB  OF  ASTBOLOGT. 

The  persons  under  bis  influence  are  healthy,  cheerful,  and 
jovictl  in  disposition,  and  are  open,  sincere,  generous,  and 
quite  free  from  fraud  or  meanness  of  any  kind.  They  are 
generally  much  esteemed,  from  pursuing  always  very  honour- 
able, magnanimous  conduct ;  and  they  are  the  favourites  of 
fortune.  If  Jupiter  be  approaching  the  meridian  at  birth, 
the  native  will  (unless  very  evil  aspects  occur  to  counteract 
his  influence)  become  extremely  wealthy,  and  arrive  at  dis- 
tinction. This  is  verified  in  the  nativities  of  Queen  Victoria 
and  the  Duke  of  Wellington. 

Mars. — ^This  planet  is  between  the  Earth  and  Jupiter ;  he  is 
rather  less' in  size  than  our  globe,  and  goes  round  the  Sun 
in  about  six  weeks  less  than  two  years.  His  red  fiery  ap- 
pearance renders  him  very  conspicuous  in  the  heavens  :  his 
^diameter  is  to  that  of  the  Earth  as  0.517  to  1 . 

Mars  is  a  very  evil  planet,  but  his  nature  is  quite  differ- 
ent from  Saturn.  He  causes  all  hot  and  violent  diseases, 
and  persons  under  his  influence  are  subject  to  cuts,  bums, 
and  o^her  violent  accidents.  They  are  rash,  angry,  and 
always  ready  to  rush  into  quarrels  and  bloodshed.  They 
feel  no  pity.  If  Mars  be  in  the  ascendant  of  any  person's 
nativity,  they  become  liable  to  receive  cuts  or  have  marks 
in  the  face  ;  they  are  fond  of  war  and  danger ;  if  in  the 
10th  house,  or  on  the  meridian,  they  are  generally  observed 
as  warlike  characters,  and  may  gain  honours  as  such.  In 
George  the  Third's  nativity  he  was  so  situated,  and  during 
his  reign  England  was  perpetually  at  war. 

Venus. — This  beautiful  planet  is  situated  nearer  the  Sun  than 
is  the  Earth.  She  goes  round  the  Sun  in  32  weeks,  and  ia 
very  nearly  the  same  size  as  our  globe :  her  diameter  is  to 
the  Earth  as  0.975  to  1. 

Her  nature  is  decidedly  benefic,  but  her  power  nothing 
equal  to  that  of  Jupiter.     She  assists  to  strengthen  the 


GEAMMAB  OP  ASTBOLOGT .  365 

constituiion  if  ascending  at  birth,  but  she  gives  such  a 
strong  inclination  for  pleasure,  that  the  native  often  injures 
his  health  in  its  pursuit.  She  was  ascending  when  George 
the  Fourth  was  born,  and  gave  him  that  remarkably  refined 
taste  which  he  possessed,  and  also  a  fondness  for  dissipa- 
tion. Persons  born  under  her  influence  are  generally  of  a 
mild,  quiet  disposition.  If  on  the  meridian,  she  renders 
the  native  respectable  in  Ufe,  unless  in  ill  aspect  to  Saturn, 
when  he  will  generally  be  very  mean  in  his  conduct.  She 
partakes  very  much  of  the  nature  of  those  planets  to  which 
she  is  in  aspect,  and  no  judgment  can  be  formed  of  her 
effects  without  taking  this  into  fall  consideration.  If  well 
aspected,  the  native  wiU  gain  chiefly  through  the  means  of 
females  ;  if  ill  aspected  by  ^ ,  the  native  is  not  chaste. 
Mercury. — ^This  planet  is  the  nearest  to  the  Sun  of  any  yet 
discovered.  He  is  very  small,  being  only  3200  miles  in 
diameter,  and  travels  very  swiftly,  going  round  the  Sun  in 
12  weeks  and  4  days:  his  diameter  is  to  the  Earth's  as 
0.398  to  1. 

His  influence,  when  in  no  aspect  with  any  other  planet, 
and  if  in  the  ascendant,  causes  great  restlessness  and  desire 
of  change  ;  fondness  for  travelling,  and  a  busy  turn  of 
mind,  addicted  to  literature  :  but  as  this  planet  is  the  chief 
ruler  of  the  mental  faculties,  great  care  must  be  taken  to 
note  what  aspect  he  forms  with  other  planets,  for  on  that 
will  chiefly  depend  the  mental  disposition  of  the  native.  If 
close  to  the  Sun,  the  native  never  has  any  great  abihties  for 
science ;  his  mind  is  rather  contracted  and  superficial, 
though  he  may  be  well  adapted  for  any  kmd  of  plodding 
business.  If  at  the  same  time  he  be  afficted  by  the  evil 
aspects  of  the  malefics,  and  the  Moon  also  be  weak  and 
afflicted,  the  native  will  be  of  very  weak  mind ;  and  if  the 
ascendant  also  be  afflicted  by  the  presence  or  ill  aspect  of 


366  GRAMMAR  OF  ASTROLOGY. 

evil  planets,  and  there  be  no  good  aspect  between  the  Moon 
and  Mercury,  or  between  them  and  the  ascendant,  the  na- 
tive will  be  an  idiot  or  become  insane.  This  may  be  the 
case  even  where  Mercury  is  distant  from  the  Sun>  as  oc- 
curred in  the  nativity  of  George  the  Third,  where  Mercury 
was  12  degrees  and  a  half  from  the  Sun.  In  that  king's 
nativity.  Mercury  had  the  sextile  aspect  of  Jupiter,  which 
preserved  his  mental  faculties  for  several  years ;  but  being 
in  conjunction  with  Saturn,  and  in  semi-square  with  Mars, 
and  the  Moon  being  also  in  square  to  Mars,  and  in  no  as- 
pect to  Mercury,  and  neither  of  them  in  aspect  to  the 
ascendant,  the  royal  native,  under  ill  directions,  lost  his 
reason. 
The  Sun. — ^The  glorious  body  which  gives  us  light  and  heat 
is  less  noticed  than  the  Moon  in  the  judgment  of  a  nativity; 
though,  if  astrology  were  all  fancy,  his  appearance  would 
have  been  likely  to  say  much  in  his  favour.  The  Earth  is 
distant  about  95  millions  of  miles  from  the  Sun,  which  in 
bulk  exceeds  that  of  the  Earth  in  the  proportion  of  1,384,472 
to  1  :  its  diameter  is  to  that  of  the  Earth  as  i  11.4.54  to  1 . 
The  human  mind  strives  in  vain  to  comprehend  its  immense 
bulk.  Just  as  difficult  is  it  to  comprehend  how  he  keeps 
all  the  planetary  bodies  in  perpetual  play  around  his  centre ; 
for  although  the  terms  attraction  and  gravitation  have  been 
long  in  use,  they  are  still  as  fuU  of  mystery  as  is  that  of 
planetary  influence.  The  specific  influence  of  the  Sun  is 
small ;  but  it  seems  to  be  similar  to  that  of  Mars.  If  in 
the  ascendant,  or  in  aspect  to  it,  he  causes  a  d^ree  of 
pride  ;  when  in  good  aspect  to  the  Moon,  he  causes  success 
in  life  ;  but  if  in  evil  aspect,  he  gives  rashness,  and  injures 
the  native's  fortune.  If  in  conjunction  with  any  planet, 
he  destroys  the  power  of  that  planet  in  a  great  measure, 
and  assumes  the  nature  of  the  planet  himself,  to  a  certain 


GBAMMAB    OE  ASTBOLOGT.  367 

extent.  It  is  highly  important  that  the  Sun  should  be  free  i 
from  the  ill  aspects  of  the  malefic  planets,  to  produce  sue- 
cess  in  life ;  and  it  is  better  that  he  have  no  aspect  what- 
ever to  them,  unless  it  be  to  Mars,  when  the  Sun  is  near 
the  meridian,  as  this  may  cause  military  preferment. 
The  Moon, — This  beautiful  globe  apparently  goes  round  the 
Earth  in  27  days,  7  hours,  and  43  minutes.*  Her  distance 
is  237,000  miles  from  us ;  and  she  is  nearly  50  times  her 
own  size  smaller  than  this  Earth:  her  diameter  is  2160 
miles,  that  of  the  Earth  at  the  Equator  7925.648  miles. 

She  has  most  powerful  influence  on  every  person,  accord- 
ing to  her  situation  at  birth,  or  what  is  termed  her  mun- 
DAio:  POSITION ;  that  is,  her  rising,  setting,  &c. ;  and  also, 
as  regards  her  aspect  with  other  planets.  If  she  be  nearly  L^ 
in  conjunction  with  the  Sun,  the  native  wiU  be  of  weak 
constitution,  and,  if  not  very  well  aspected,  and  the  Hyleg 
not  strong,  of  very  short  life.  Persons  bom  during  an 
eclipse  of  the  Sun,  when  the  Moon  is  nearly  in  a  direct 
line  with  the  Sun,  are  invariably  very  weakly,  and  are  said 
never  to  Uve  many  years.  The  Moon  has  certainly,  at  all 
times,  much  to  do  with  the  stamina  of  the  native's  consti-  ]y^ 
tution ;  and,  if  she  be  much  afflicted,  his  health  wiU  rarely 
be  good,  and  his  fortune  wiU  be  as  poor.  The  animal  pro- 
pensities depend  almost  wholly  on  the  Moon ;  and  if  she 
be  afflicted,  the  native  will  be  idle  and  given  to  drinking, 
gluttony,  and  debauchery.  The  good  aspects  of  Mercury 
and  the  Moon  to  each  other  are  important,  to  give  wit  and  l^ 
ingenuity.  If  the  Moon  ascend  at  birth,  the  native  will  be 
very  fond  of  novelty  and  roaming  about ;  and  if  she  be 
weak,  will  lead  a  very  dissolute  life;     If  the  Moon  be  on 

*  I  have  said  "  apparently/'  because  I  have  she^n  that  the  Moon  does 
not  in  reality  go  rmnd  the  Earth,  but  moves  in  a  curve  which,  though 
9ui  ffeneriif  is  similar  to  that  of  the  Earth. 


368  GBAMMAB  OF  ASTBOLOaX. 

the  meridian,  or  approachu^g  it,  and  at  the  same  time  in 
good  aspect  to  Mercury,  the  native,  will  be  cleyer,  and  for- 
tunate through  his  own  talents;  if  in  good  aspect  to  Jupiter, 
he  will  gain  wealth ;  to  the  Sun,  he  will  meet  preferment ; 
to  Venus,  he  will  have  many  female  friends,  and  be  very 
agreeable  in  his  manners ;  to  Saturn,  if  Saturn  himself  be 
strong,  he  may  gain  by  elderly  persons,  legacies,  buildings, 
or  agricultural  pursuits  ;  to  Mars,  he  may  succeed  in  war- 
fare, or  as  a  surgeon,  cutler,  &c.  But  in  all  these  cases, 
if  there  be  any  evil  aspects  to  the  Moon,  or  to  the  meri- 
dian itself,  the  good  will  be  materially  diminished. 

When  evil  aspects  are  found  between  the  Moon,  Mars, 
and  Mercury,  the  native  is  inclined  to  dishonesty.  The 
Moon  in  good  aspect  to  Mars  gives  courage ;  and  if  Mars 
be  evilly  affected  by  other  planets,  boldness  and  impu- 
dence.* 


CHAPTER  IV. 

OF     THE     ASPECTS. 

The  aspects  in  the  zodiac  consist  of  certain  xlistances,  at 
which,  when  two  bodies  are  found,  they  produce  a  peculiar 
effect.  Many  objections  have  been  made  to  this  part  of  the 
science ;  the  adversaries  asserting  that  these  aspects  are 
merely  arbitrary  measures,  and  that  they  have  no  foundation 
in  nature,  there  being  no  difference  whatever  in  mathematics 
between  the  distance  of  120  degrees  and  the  distance  of  122 
degrees  which  can  be  the  foundation  of  that  peculiar  effect 
which  astrologers  declare  that  the  aspect  called  a  Trine  does 
produce. 

*  Vide  the  Nativity  of  Richard  Carlisle,  8  a.m.  3rd  December,  1790, 
at  Ashburton,  Devon. 


aBAMMAB  or  ASTBOLOGY,  369 

The  objection  is  not  of  any  great  consequence ;  for  if  it  can 
be  proved  (which  it  certainly  can),  that  when  the  Moon,  for 
example,  arrives  at  a  trine  aspect  of  Jupiter,  or  120  degrees 
firom  that  planet  in  any  nativity,  certain  remarkable  effects 
appear  which  do  not  appear  when  she  arrives  at  the  distance 
of  122  or  123,  or  any  other  number  of  degrees :  this  /act 
demonstrates  that  there  is  something  peculiar  in  the  angle 
formed  by  120  degrees,  which  constitute  a  trine  aspect. 

Having  closely  investigated  this  subject,  I  have  discovered 
a  very  remarkable  peculiarity  in  the  angles  which  form  both 
the  old  and  new  aspects.     The  fact  is,  that  etbby  Astbo- 

IX)GICAL  ASPECT  TOBMS  THE  EXACT  AKaiiE,  OB  SUPPLEMENTAL 
AKOLE,  OF  A  BEOTTLAB  POLYGOIf,  WHICH  MAY  BE  DTSCBIBEB 
nr  A  CIBOLE.* 

A  Table  of  the  Aspects  akd  the  Polygons  whose 

Angles  they  measube. 
30  deg.  A  semisextile,  the  supplemental  angle  of  a  reg^dbr  duodecagon, 

or  figure  of  12  sides. 
45  deg.  A  semi-square  J  the  supplemented  angle  of  a  regular  octagwij  or 

figure  of  8  sides. 
60  deg.  A  sextUe,  the  angle  of  a  regular  triangle^  or  figure  of  3  sides. 
72  d^.  A  quintile,  the  supplemental  angle  of  a  regular  pentagon^  or 

figure  of  5  sides. 
90  deg.  A  square^  the  angle  of  a  regular  quadrangkt  or  figure  of  4  sides. 
120  deg.  A  trme^  the  angle  of  a  regular  heoMtgofiy  or  figure  of  6  sides. 
135  deg.  A  sesquiquadratef  the  angle  of  a  regular  octagon,  or  figure  of 

8  sides. 
144  deg.  A  biquintiief  the  angle  of  a  regular  decagon,  or  figure  of  10  sides. 
Note. — 180  deg.  the  opposition,  the  amount  of  2  right  angles,  which  is  the 
sum  of  the  3  angles  of  every  triangle. 
There  is  one  polygon,  a  figure  of  9  sides,  that  forms  an  angle  of  40 
degrees,  which  have  not  yet  been  found  to  constitute  an  astrological 
aspect. 

*  These  angles  of  the  regular  forms  of  geometry  are  those  under  which 
the  superior  metals  crystallize.  Water  crystallizes  at  an  angle  of  60°,  that 
of  the  Trine. 


370  GBAMMAS  OF  ASTBOLOGY. 

This  is  a  yery  curious  and  remarkable  agreement  between 
the  aspects  and  the  angles  of  regular  polygons ;  and  those 
who  understand  geometry,  and  who  reflect  on  the  properties 
of  the  triangle  and  other  polygons,  and  on  the  nature  of  the 
circle  itself,  will  find  in  it  room  for  admiration  of  the  works 
of  the  Almighty  Creator,  **  whose  ways  are  past  finding  out." 

The  student  will  perceive  that  these  facts  are  merely  offered 
as  proof  that  the  aspects  are  not  arbitrary,  but  are,  indeed, 
intimately  connected  with  the  great  principles  of  geometry, 
upon  which  the  architecture  of  the  universe  itself  is  founded. 


CHAPTER   V. 


THE   QUALITIES   OP    THE   ASPECTS. 

The  BENiJfe  Aspects  are  the  semi-sextile,  the  sextile,  the 
quintile,  the  trine,  and  the  biquintile.  When  planets  are  found 
situated  at  these  distances  from  each  other,  they  operate  bene- 
ficially for  the  native ;  and  if  the  aspect  be  not  yet  complete 
at  birth,  but  may  be  wanting  a  few  degrees,  then  the  effect  is 
less  powerful ;  but  it  wiU  be  found  to  take  effect  at  that  pe- 
riod of  life  when  it  becomes  complete,  which  will  be  explained 
under  the  head  "Directions."  If  the  aspect  be  past,  the 
planet  which,  by  its  more  speedy  motion,  is  separating  firom 
the  other,  will  still  retain  the  effect  of  the  aspect  until  it  has 
separated  several  degrees. 

The  Malepic  Aspects  are  the  semi-quartile  or  semi-square, 
the  square^  the  sesquiquadrate,  and  the  opposition.  When 
planets  are  found  at  the  distances  which  constitute  these  as- 
pects, they  act  evilly  for  the  native.  The  same  observations 
hold  good  with  regard  to  the  approaching  and  separating  as  are 
made  in  the  last  paragraph. 


GBAHMAB  OF  ASTBOLOeX.  371 

Observe. — The  more  perfect  or  exact  is  the  aapect,  the  more 

powerful  will  be  the  effect,  whether  good  or  evil. 

The  Conjunction, — ^This  is  when  two  planets  are  in  the  same 
d^ree  and  minute  of  any  sign.  If  either  of  the  lights 
(the  Sun  and  Moon)  be  in  conjunction  with  an  evil  planet, 
it  injures  the  native's  constitution ;  and  if  an  evil  planet  be 
conjoined  with  the  Hyleg^  the  native  will  be  very  liable  to 
illness  all  through  Hfe. 

If  the  Hyleg  be  conjoined  with  Jupiter  or  Venus,  the 
constitution  is  strengthened  thereby ;  but,  if  it  be  the  Sun 
which  is  Hyleg,  his  conjunction  with  the  benefic  destroys 
its  power  to  do  good  in  a  great  measure,  and  its  favourable 
aspects  to  the  Moon,  mid-heaven,  ascendant,  or  part  of  For- 
tune, are  of  less  avaQ. 

The  Semisextile. — ^This  aspect  is  the  weakest  of  all ;  it  is  of 
no  importance  in  directions ;  but  if,  at  birth,  the  Hyleg 
have  an  exact  semi-sextile  to  a  benefic,  the  hf^th  will  be 
benefitted. 

The  Sem-quartile. — ^This,  whether  found  at  birth  or  formed 
by  directional  motion,  is  evil ;  but  if  the  aspect  be  between 
the  Hyleg  and  Jupiter,  it  rather  strengthens  the  constitution. 

The  Sextile. — This  is  a  powerful  and  benefic  aspect. 

The  Quintile. — ^This  is  benefic,  but  if  to  the  evil  planets  is  of 
no  avail,  as  it  is  much  less  powerful  than  the  sextile. 

The  Square  or  Quartile, — ^ThiB  is  a  very  powerful  and  evil 
aspect ;  and  if  the  planet  casting  it  be  Saturn,  and  he  in 
the  10th  house,  and  the  planet  receiving  it  be  the  Hyleg, 
the  native  will  always  be  ailing,  unless  very  powerful  aspects 
counteract;  and  even  then  the  native  will  suffer  greatly 
from  ill  health,  especially  if  Saturn's  nature  be  rendered 
more  evil  by  ill  aspects  to  Herschel  or  Mars. 

T^e  Trine. — ^This  is  the  most  powerful  of  the  good  aspects. 

The  Seequiquadrate. — ^This  is  just  like  the  semi-quartile. 

B  B 


372  QRAlfMAK  OF  ASTBOLOaX. 

The  Biquintile, — Consider  this  just  like  the  quintile. 

The  Opposition, — ^This  is  the  most  powerfully  eyil  aspect.  If 
the  Hyleg  be  in  opposition  to  Saturn  or  Mars,  the  native 
will  be  of  very  weak  constitution. 

The  Zodiacal  Parallel, — ^The  old  writers  did  not  properly  cal- 
.  culate  these  parallels,  as  they  omitted  the  planef  s  latitude : 
this  caused  continual  error,  as  they  never  could  be  correct, 
except  on  those  rare  occasions  when  two  planets  were  ex- 
actly on  the  ecliptic.  The  zodiacal  parallel  signifies  a 
parallel  distance  firom  the  equator,  or  being  in  the  same 
degree  of  declination ;  and  whether  of  the  same  name, 
north  or  south,  is  of  ho  consequence.  The  student  should 
pay  very  particular  attention  to  the  declinations  of  the 
planets,  as  the  zodiacal  pabal£el  is  of  more  import- 
ance than  any  other  aspect.  The  e£fect  of  this  position  is 
exactly  the.  same  as  that  of  a  close  conjunction,  but  mare 
powerful. 


CHAPTER  VI. 

or  THE  FIGXTBE  OP  THB  HEAVENS. 

This  is  nothing  more  or  less  than  a  map  or  plan,  in  which  is 
depicted  an  accurate  representation  of  the  heavens  at  any 
required  time ;  as,  for  example,  at  the  moment  a  child  is  bom. 
It  shews  what  stars  are  rising,  setting,  or  coming  to  the 
meridian ;  and,  also,  what  positions  are  held  by  the  Sun, 
Moon,  and  planets,  and  also  by  any  comet  which  may  happen 
to  be  visible  at  the  time. 

It  has  two  grand  divisions,  which  are  the  diurnal  and  noe- 
tumal  hemispheres.  The  former  is  all  that  space  contained 
between  the  eastern  and  western  horizons  above  the  Earth  ; 
the  latter  is  all  the  remainder  of  the  heavens  which  are,  of 


eBAJfMAB  OF  ASTBOLOGT.  373 

course,  below  the  Earth.  It  has  two  other  great  divisions 
caused  hy  the  meridian ;  they  are  the  south  and  the  north 
points.  The  former  is  that  at  which  the  Sun  arrives  every 
day  at  noon,  being  then  in  an  exact  south  direction  from  the 
spectator  on  this  side  the  equator ;  and  the  other  is  that  point 
whic^  is  directly  opposite  to  the  south  meridian,  where  the 
SuQ  is  at  midnight,  called  the  north  meridian,  or  lower  heaven. 

.^ese  /oter  divisions,  the  tasty  south,  west,  and  north,  are 
evidently  formed  by  nature.  The  east  is  that  point  where  the 
Sun  rises  or  ascends,  and  becomes  visible ;  the  south  is  that 
where  he  ceases  to  ascend,  and,  after  appearing  for  a  moment 
to  be  stationary,  begins  to  descend ;  the  west  is  that  where  he 
sets  and  disappears ;  lastly,  the  north  is  that  where  he  ceases 
to  descend,  and  begins  again  to  ascend,  and  approach  the 
eastern  horizon. 

Astrologers  divide  the  heavens  into  twelve  compartments, 
which  they  term  Houses  :  these /our  points  are  the  mq^t  im- 
portant of  those  twelve  hoiises,  and  are  called  the  Angles. 
Planets^  when  found  in  the  angles  at  birth,  are  far  more 
powerful  to  good  or  evil,  according  to  their  natures,  than  in 
any  other  part  of  the  figure.  The  most  powerful  angle  is  the 
south,  or  when  a  star  is  on  the  meridian  above  the  earth ;  the 
next  is  the  east,  or  when  a  star  is  ascending ;  the  next  is  the 
west,  or  when  a  star  is  setting  ;  the  least  powerful  is  the  north^ 
or  the  meridian  under  the  Earth. 


CHAPTER    VII. 

or  THE  TWELVE  HOUSES  OE  HEATEK. 

HATnra  divided  the  Heavens  into  four  quarters,  which  we 
have  shewn  to  be  formed  by  nature,  we  shall  now  shew  how 


374  GBAJCMAB  OF  ASTBOLOeT. 

these  are  again  subdiyided  into  three  each,  oompiiaing  in  all 
twelve  diyinons,  called  the  Twelve  Houses. 

If  the  first  degree  of  Aries,  the  beginning  of  the  zodiac,  be 
rising  in  the  east,  the  opposite  point  of  the  zodiac  (the  first 
degree  of  Libra)  most  be  setting  at  the  same  moment.  If, 
then,  we  examine  the  heavens,  we  shall  find  that  on  the  meri- 
dian (north)  will  be  found  the  first  degree  of  Cancer,  and  on 
the  opposite  meridian  (south)  will  be  found  the  beginning 
of  Caprieam.  Each  of  the  meridians,  therefore,  are  90 
degrees  distant  from  the  east  point,  or  ascendant ;  but,  for  the 
sake  of  clearness,  we  will  consider  only  the  south  meridian. 
If  the  Sun  be  in  the  first  degree  of  Aries  when  rising,  and  the 
Moon  be  in  the  first  degree  of  Capricorn  at  the  same  time, 
she  must  be  on  the  south  meridian,  and  be  also  at  90  d^rees 
distance  from  the  Sun,  which  is  a  square  aspect  to  that  body. 
If  the  Sun  rise  in  the  first  degree  of  Aries,  the  day  and  night 
are  then  equ^  each  being  12  hours  long.  The  Sun  rises,  in 
this  case,  at  six  o'clock,  comes  to  the  south  meridian  at  twelve, 
and  sets  at  six  in  the  evening ;  and  if  we  suppose  the  Moon 
to  renmajueed  on  the  meridian,  the  Sun  wUl,  two  hours  after 
rising,  be  within  sixty  degrees  of  her,  having  passed  one-third 
of  the  distance  from  the  ascendant  to  the  meridian  or  mid- 
heaven  :'*'  this  is  a  sextile  aspect.  It  appears,  therefore,  that 
one-third  of  the  half  of  the  arc  formed  by  the  Sun  in  his 
daily  course  being  completed,  he  is  found  at  a  sextile  aspect  to 
the  meridian.  Of  course,  he  must  then  be  30  degrees  (a  semi- 
sextile)  from  the  horizon,  or  ascendant.  Now  this,  being 
one-third  of  oinfi  qtjabteb  of  the  heavens,  is  one-twelfth  part 
of  THE  WHOLE ;  and  thus  constitutes  oiTE  hofsb.  In  two 
hours  more  the  Sun  proceeds  upwards  another  30  degrees, 

*  This  distance  wiU  always  be  the  same  by  obUgue  tueemskm,  there 
being  always  90^  of  oblique  ascension  between  the  horizon  and  meridiaii. 


GBAMMAB  OE  ASTBOLO&T.  375 

and  amves  at  the  distance  of  60  degrees  from  the  ascendant, 
and  30  d^rees  to  the  mid-heaTen.  This  fonns  another  third 
of  the  quarter  contained  hetween  the  east  and  the  meridian, 
and  becomes  another  house.  When  he  arrives  at  the  mid- 
heaven,  at  noon,  he  has  passed  a  third  house;  whence  it 
appears  that  there  are  three  houses  between  the  horizon  and 
meridian,  and  the  heginmn^  of  each  is  in  aspect  to  both  of 
those  points.  It  is  this  circumstance  of  their  being  in  aspect, 
and  being  found  to  operate  certain  eff^ects  which  they  do  not 
when  otherwise  situated,  that,  no  doubt,  first  gave  rise  to  the 
divisions  of  the  heavens  into  tweloe  houses.  It  is  plain  that, 
in  passing  from  the  mid-heaven  to  the  western  horizon,  similar 
positions  are  formed ;  as  also  in  passing  from  the  western 
horizon  to  the  north  meridian,  and  again  from  the  north 
meridian  to  the  phice  of  sun-rise,  in  the  east.  Each  quad- 
rant of  the  heavens  produces  three  houses^-each  hemisphere 
contains  six ;  there  are,  of  course,  Twelte  Hoitses. 

Notice. — ^It  matters  not  whether  the  Sun  or  any  star  be 
on  the  equator,  and  so  divide  the  heavens  into  equal  portions 
to  constitute  the  houses,  or  be  distant  from  the  equator,  and 
so  divide  the  heavens  into  unequal  portions  ;  since  one  house 
in  the  course  of  any  heavenly  body  will  always  measure  ex- 
actly one-third  part  of  the  arc  that  body  forms  between  the 
horizon  and  the  meridian.* 


CHAPTBR  VIII. 


TO  EBECT  A  riaVEE  OF  THE  HEAYENS  AT  BIBTH. 

This  is  merely  to  draw  a  map  of  the  heavens  as  they  may 
appear  at  the  moment  a  child  was  bom;  and  according  to 

*  See  note,  page  374. 


376  &EAM3CAB  or  jtSTBOLOGY. 

the  situation  of  the  signs  of  the  zodiac,  the  Son,  Moon,  and 
other  heayenly  bodies,  will  be  the  destiny  of  the  native  or 
child  then  bom,  unless  by  care  and  prudence  any  portion  of 
that  destiny,  being  foreseen,  may  be  avoided. 

Draw  a  circle  to  represent  the  heavens  ;  within  which  draw 
a  second  and  smaller  circle,  to  represent  the  Earth.  Then 
draw  a  straight  line  through  the  outer  circle  (as  mjig.l)  to  /i,^^. 
represent  the  horizon ;  E  being  the  east,  where  the  Sun  rises, 
and  W  the  west,  where  the  Sun  sets.  Then  draw  another 
line  at  right  angles  from  the  first,  to  represent  the  meridian  ; 
S  being  the  south,  where  the  Sun  is  at  noon,  and  N  the 
north,  where  the  Sun  is  at  midnight.  These  four  points  are 
the  angles,  or  cusps,  or  beginnings  of  the  1st,  4th,  7th,  and 
10th  houses  ;  which  are  of  most  consequence  in  every  figure 
of  birth  or  nativity.  Proceed  to  divide  each  of  the  four 
quadrants  of  the  figure  into  three  parts,  by  drawing  four 
other  lines,  which  are  represented  by  the  dotted  lines  in  the 
plate.  You  will  then  have  the  twelve  houses  ready  for  re- 
presenting the  planets  and  signs  as  they  may  happen  to  be 
situated. 

TO  INSEBT  THE  SIGNS  OF  THE  ZODIiiC. 

Ist.  Look  in  my  Almanac  (or,  if  previous  to  1839,  in 
White's  Ephemeris)  for  the  degree  and  minute  of  longitude 
the  Sun  was  in  at  the  noon  preceding  the  time  of  birth ;  and 
then  find,  in  the  table  of  A.  B.,  what  degree  and  minute  that 
answers  to ;  note  this  down.  Then  take  the  mean  or  dock 
time  of  the  birth  after  the  last  noon,  and  turn  it  into  degrees 
and  minutes  by  multiplying  it  by  15  ;  add  these  sums  to- 
gether, and  add  to  them  the  correction  for  the  difference  be- 
tween mean  and  sidereal  time  (this  for  1  hour  is  9.86  sec.,  and 
for  a  minute  is  0.16  sec.),  and  the  amount  will  be  the  degree 
of  riffht  ascension  on  the  meridian  at  the  moment  of  bir^. 


OBA.MMAB  07  ASTBOLOaX.  377 

Correct  tlie  time  also  for  the  "equation  of  time/*  if  the 
Ephemens  be  not  calculated  to  mean  time. 

Remark, — ^The  true  moment  of  birth  is  that  when  the  child 
first  draws  breath,  which  is  generally  known  by  its  crying  ; 
and  this  may  happen  before  the  lower  extremities  of  the  child 
are  bom. 

2d.  Having  found  the  right  ascension  of  the  meridian,  or 
mid-heayen,  at  birth,  look  in  the  table  of  houses*  what  de- 
gree of  longitude  it  answers  to,  and  write  that  down  on  the 
cusp  of  the  10th  house  or  mid-heaven,  and  the  same  degree 
of  the  opposite  sign  on  the  opposite  (the  4th)  house. 

3d.  In  the  next  column  in  the  table  of  houses  you  will  find 
the  degree  on  the  1 1th  house,  and  at  the  head  of  the  column, 
or  in  some  part  of  the  column,  above  the  line  of  figures  you 
are  using,  the  sign  which  is  on  that  house,  which  write  down 
accordingly,  and  the  same  degree  of  the  opposite  sign  on  the 
opposite  (the  5th)  house. 

4th.  In  the  4th  column  you  will  find  the  degree  of  longi- 
tude to  be  placed  on  the  12th  house ;  place  the  same  degree 
of  the  opposite  sign  on  the  6th  house. 

5th.  In  the  5th  column  you  will  find  the  degree  and  mi- 
nute of  longitude  on  the  ascendant,  or  which  is  actually  rising 
at  the  moment  of  birth,  and  its  opposite  is,  of  course,  on  the 
7th  house,  or  descendant. 

6th.  Take  the  degree  in  the  6th  column  for  the  longitude  of 
the  2d  house,  and  its  opposite  for  that  on  the  cusp  of  the  8th. 

7th.  Take  the  degree  in  the  7th  column  for  the  longitude 
of  the  3d  house,  and  its  opposite  for  the  9th  house,  and  you 
will  then  have  completed  the  cusps  of  the  twelve  houses, — 
{Seejiff,  2.) 

Example, — In  "Moore's  life  of  Byron"  wiU  be  found 
a  letter,  written  by  Lord  Byron,  dated  Pisa,  lOth  December ^ 

*  In  my  "  Tables  for  ^culating  Nativities." 


378  GRAMMAR  OF  ASTROLOGY. 

1821y  which  ccmtains  these  wordi — "  This  day  and  this  hour 
(one  on  the  dock)  my  daughter  is  six  years  old."  We  will, 
therefore^  take  this  as  a  well  authenticated  natiyity,  and  erect 
a  figure  of  the  heayens  for  1  hour>  p.h.>  10th  December, 
1815^  at  London. 

1st.  Refbrring  to  White's  Ephemeris  for  the  noon  preced- 
ing the  time  of  birth,  which  was  the  noon  of  the  10th  ]>ec. 
1815,  we  find  the  Sun's  longitude  was  17  deg.  37  min.  of 
Sagittanus.  The  right  ascension  of  17  deg.  of  that  siga  ia 
found  ti&  be  255"*  52^,  that  of  18  deg.  of  the  same  sign  ia 
256*^  >?^  then,  by  the.  rule  of  three,  say.  If  one  degree  or 
^j60  minutes  give  the  difference  between  these  numbers,  65 
minutes,  what  will  37  minutes  give  7  Ans.  40  minutes,  which, 
added  to  the  first  number  255"*  52^,  make  256''  32^  for  the 
Sun's  right  ascension  at  noon. 

The  correction  for  "equation  of  time"  is  thus  made: 
The  clock,  at  the  time  the  Sun  was  on  the  meridian  on  the 
10th  December,  1815,  was  7  min.  9  sec.  slow,  or  after  the 
Sun.  Therefore  when  the  dock  denoted  ''noon,"  the  Sun 
had  passed  the  meridian  7  min.  9  sec.,  which  in  degrees 
amounts  to  P  47'  15",  because  7  min.  9  sec.  x  15  =  6435 
seconds. 

Therefore,  if  to  the  „    ^ 

Sun's  right  ascension  at  noon 256  32 

We  add  the  correction  above    147 

We  get  the  right  ascension  of  the  meridian  at  1    058  iq 

mean  noon / 

To  this  add  the  mean  time  of  birth  1  hour  =;= 15     0 

Add  also  the  correctio{i  for  the  difference  of  mean  1 

and  sidereal  time  1  hour* j  ^ 

R.A.  of  M.C.  at  birth    273  22 

♦  Thii  difference  is  found  by  multiplying  the  hourly  difference  of  mejn 


OSAMMAB  07  A8TBOLO0T.  379 

2d.  This  right  ascension  is  found  to  answer  to  3  deg.  5 V  of 
the  sign  Ci^ricom :  we»  therefore,  enter  Vf  3®  on  the  cusp  of 
the  10th  house  or  mid-heaTen,  and  the  same  degree  of  the 
opposite  sign  s  on  the  4th. 

3d.  In  the  next  (3d)  column  will  he  found  22® ;  which 
shews  that  on  the  11th  house  must  be  placed  yf  22,  and  the 
Hke  number  of  the  opposite  sign  s  on  tiie  5th  house. 

4th.  In  the  4th  column  will  be  found  17  deg.  of  Aquarius, 
as  tiiat  sign  is  given  at  the  head  of  the  column ;  place  this 
on  the  12th  house,  and  17  of  Leo  on  tiie  6th  or  opposite 
house. 

5th.  In  the  5th  column  you  find  7"*  55',  which  denotes  that 
7  deg.  55  min.  of  Aries  were  ascending  in  the  east :  but  this 
was  when  3*^  exactly  of  yf  were  culminating ;  and  as  1®  of 
longitude  on  the  meridian  is  seen  to  give  2®  34'  on  the  as- 
cendant, 5f  will  give  14',  therefore  say  7*  55'  +  14'  =  8»  9' 
of  Aries  rising ;  and  after  placing  T  8®  9'  on  the  1st,  place 
£^  8®  9'  on  the  opposite  or  7th  house. 

6th.  On  the  2d  house  place  what  you  find  in  tiie  6th  co- 
lumn, viz.  22®  Taurus;  thus  t^  22®,  and  on  its  opposite 
place  lit  22®. 

7th.  On  the  3d  house  place  what  you  see  in  the  7th  co* 
lumn,  n  15®,  and  on  its  opposite  f  15®.  The  figure  will 
then  display  the  signs  of  the  zodiac  as  they  were  in  the 
heavens  at  1  p.m.  10  Bee.  1815,  at  London.    (See  Jiff.  2.) 

TO  PLACE  THE  PLAIOSTS  IK  THE  PIOTTBE. 

Preliminary  Observation. — ^The  Ephemeris  being  calculated 
for  the  meridian  of  Greenwich,  if  the  birth  take  place  as 

ind  iidereal  time,  9".86,  into  the  amount  of  mean  time  elapsed  since 
noon.  Thus  1  hour  -v  9''.86=9''.86 ;  and  to  turn  this  into  degrees  or 
*»arc"  say  9".86  >c  15  =  148",  which  I  caU  3',  as  I  lost  15"  in  the 
'*  eq[nation  of  time.'' 


380  aSAMMAB  Ol*  ASTBOLOGT. 

much  as  15  miles  to  the  eastward  or  westward  of  Greenwich, 
the  time  of  birth  must  be  corrected  for  the  lon^tade  of  the 
place,  to  ascertain  the  time  it  was  at  Greenwich,  before  we 
find  the  planets'  places.  , 

Rule. — If  the  longitude  be  east  of  Greenwich,  subtract 
1  minute  from  the  time  given  for  every  15  miles  of  longitude ; 
but  if  it  be  to  the  west  of  Greenwich,  add  1  minute  for  every 
15  miles  of  longitude. 

Example. — If  the  birth  be  at  Liverpool,  the  longitude  of 
which  is  3  degrees  west,  or  180  miles,  add  12  minutes  to  the 
time  given  (since  180  divided  by  15  gives  12),  and  you  will 
have  the  time  it  was  at  Greenwich,  for  which  the  planets* 
places  must  be  found. 

TO  rnO)   THE   PLAITETS'    PLACES  AT  BIBTH. 

Rule, — Find  the  amount  of  longitude  in  the  zodiac  txaversed 
by  each  planet  between  the  noon  preceding  and  that  which 
follows  the  time  of  birth.  Then  say.  If  24  hours  give  that 
amount,  what  will  the  time  of  birth  from  the  preceding  noon 
give  ?  and  add  the  result  to  the  planets'  longitude  at  the  pre- 
ceding noon. 

Example. — In  the  nativity  of  Lord  Byron's  daughter,  ©'a 
longitude  at  noon  on  the  10th  December  was  f  I?'*  37'  (the 
seconds  when  less  than  30  may  be  omitted ;  if  above  30  call 
them  one  minute,  and  add  it  to  the  minutes  ;)  on  the  1 1th  it 
was  f  19*  38",  the  difference  is  61  minutes ;  then.  If  24 
hours  give  6 1  minutes,  what  will  1  hour  7  minutes  ^ve  T* 
Answer,  2  minutes  50  seconds,  which,  added  to  the  Q'a 
place  at  the  preceding  noon,  gives  Q's  place  in  the  zodiac  at 
birth. 

*  Here  the  "  equation  of  time  "  is  allowed  for,  because  tlie  planets' 
places  in  Wkitt^a  Ephemeris  were  given  for  true  or  apparent  noon,  when 
the  0  was  on  the  meridian. 


GBAHMAB  OF  ABTBOLOOT.  381 

Thus  O  at  noon  preceding  f      17°  37'  21 
Longitude  gained  since  noon  2  50 


©*s  longitude  at  birth 17M0' 11" 

AirOTHBB  BBIBF  METHOD  VSEB  BY  THE  ATJTHOB. 

Divide  the  amount  of  longitude  made  in  24  hours,  and  also 
the  time  since  noon,  by  12;  then  multiply  the  quotients  to- 
gether, and  the  result  is  the  answer  in  minutes  of  a  degree, 
the  last  figure  being  a  decimal. 

Example, — Longitude  made  in  24  hours  61  minutes,  dinded 
by  12,  giyes  5 ;  time  since  noon,  67  minutes,  divided  by  12, 
gives  5^ ;  then  b^  multipUed  by  5  gives  27i :  the  last  figure 
being  a  decimal,  the  answer  is  2.7^9  or  2  minutes  and  7\ 
tenths  of  a  minute,  which  may  be  called  3  minutes. 

In  like  manner  find  the  )'s  longitude  at  birth.  Thus  }) 
longitude  on  the  10th  is  r  5»  5',  ditto  on  the  11th,  r  17°  20', 
difference  in  24  hours  12°  15';  this  divided  by  12  gives  1°  H', 
which,  reduced  to  minutes,  is  61  J,  and  multipUed  by  5i  pro- 
duces 33.6f,  or  33  minutes  6j^  tenths,  equal  to  34  minutes : 
this,  added  to  })  longitude  on  the  10th  at  noon,  T  5°  5',  gives 
her  longitude  at  birth  r  5°  39'. 

Having  found  the  other  planets'  places,  proceed  to  place 
them  in  the  figure  as  follows : 

1st.  0.  On  the  cusp  of  the  9th  is  f  15°;  but  as  0  w 
farther  on  in  ^ ,  place  him  inside  the  house  :  if  he  had  'been 
in  less  than  15°  of  #,  he  would  have  gone  by  the  cusp  of 
the  9th,  and  should  have  been  placed  just  outside. 

2nd.  J  .  On  the  ascendant  is  r  8°  9' ;  and  as  ])  is  not 
so  far  on  in  the  sign,  she  appears  to  have  passed  the  cusp,  and 
must  be  placed  just  above  the  1st  house. 

3rd.  1^  is  not  so  far  on  as  the  cusp  of  the  9lh,  and  must 
be  placed  just  outside  the  same. 


382  GBAMMA.E  OF  iilTBOLO&T. 

4th.  f2  ^  ui  ri:i  S"*  36'^  and  falls  just  outside  the  cusp  ef 
the  12th  house,  which  is  in  sa  17° ;  he  is,  therefore,  in  the 

nth. 

5th.  :(/[  iniTi  2°  15',  and  ?  inin.  1°  32^,  both  faU  in  the 
7th,  because  ni  22°  are  on  the  cusp  of  the  8th. 

6th.  ^  being  farther  on  in  r  than  the  cusp  of  the  1st,  is 
in  the  ascendant,  in  r  20°  26'. 

7th.  $  being  m  ^  0°  32',  falls  farther  outside  the  9th  than 
does  ]^,  and  is  near  the  middle  of  the  8th  house. 

S .  The  })  's  north  node  is  in  ^  24°  57',  and  Ms  in  the 
9th  house,  fiurther  on  than  O  ;  the  3,  the  south  node,  is  al- 
ways opposite  to  it,  and  is  of  course  in  n  24°  57'  in  the  3d 
house.  The  figure  is  now  complete,  except  as  to  the  0,  for 
which  see  Chap.  XIV. 


CHAPTER   IX. 

TO  FIND  THE  PL^JTETS'   LATITUDES,  DECLUfATIOITS,   &C. 

1st.  The  Latitude, — ^This  is  given  in  the  Ephemeris  for  every 
day  at  noon  for  the  Moon ;  and  the  proportional  part  may  be 
found  by  either  of  the  rules  given  for  finding  the  longitude. 

The  Sun  never  has  any  latitude.  The  other  planets'  latitude 
is  given  for  every  6th  day ;  and  the  proportional  part  may  be 
found  by  the  golden  rule  with  great  ease. 

Ejmnple, — The  latitude  of  Mercury  on  the  7th  of  December, 
1815,  was  1°  33'  north,  and  on  the  13th  it  was  0°  49'  north, 
difference  44  minutes ;  then  if  6  days  give  44  minutes,  what 
will  3  days  and  1  hour  (the  time  between  the  7th  day  at  noon 
and  the  time  of  birth)  give  ?  Answer,  22  minutes,  which, 
taken  from  the  latitude  of  Mercury  at  noon  on  the  7th,  as  he 
is  decreasing  in  latitude,  leaves  his  latitude  at  birth  1°  1 1' 
north. 


GEAMMAB  OV  ASTEOLOaT.  383 

Observe, — If  the  planet  pass  from  north  to  south,  or  from 
south  to  north  latitude,  add  the  amount  of  each  to  find  the 
difference. 

2d.  The  DecUnation. — On  this  depend  most  of  the  other 
data  for  ascertaining  the  arcs  of  direction,  hy  which  the  period 
of  the  various  events  in  life  is  known.  It  should  he  accu- 
rately calculated.  In  my  Tahles  it  is  given  for  every  even 
degree  of  longitude  and  latitude  in  which  the  {Janets  can  he 
found ;  hut  as  they  are  seldom  in  an  even  degree,  it  is  neces- 
sary to  take  the  proportional  part  hoth  for  the  longitude  and 
latitude. 

Example  1. — The  Sun  is  in  ^  17*  40',  the  declination  of 
f  17**  is  22«  50',  that  oi  f  18*»  is  22«  56',  difference  6 
minutes  ;  then  say.  As  60  minutes  are  to  40  minutes,  so  are 
6  minutes  to  4  minutes,  which  add  to  the  declination  of  t 
1 7%  as  the  Sun  is  increasing  in  declination,  and  the  Sun's  de- 
clination will  he  22^  54',  and  as  he  is  in  a  southern  sign,  it  is 
south. 

Example  2. — To  find  the  Moon's  declination  in  the  nativity 
of  the  Countess  of  Lovelace,  look  for  the  Moon's  longitude 
r  S**  39'  in  the  Table  (the  ])  having  5**  11'  south  latitude). 
Opposite  the  longitude  of  5  degrees  of  T>  under  the  column 
of  5  degrees  south  latitude  (nearly  the  latitude  of  the  Moon), 
are  found  2^  36' ;  and  in  the  same  column  opposite  6  degrees 
of  T  are  found  2**  12',  the  difference  is  24  min. ;  then  say, 
60  :  24  :  :  39  :  15.36,  15  min.  36  seconds  mimis. 

Next  look  for  the  difference  between  5  degrees  of  latitude 
and  6  d^.  opposite  the  5th  degree  of  longitude  :  this  wiU  be 
found  to  be  55  ;  then  say, 

0  :  55  :  :  11   :  10.5,  or  10.5  plus. 
Then,  as  the  difference  for  the  minutes  of  longitude  is  minus, 


384  OBAMMAB  OF  ASTBOLOGY.: 

and  the  difference  of  the  minutes  of  latitade  is  plus,  subtract 
one  from  the  other. 

15'  36"  minus 

10    5    plus 


And  you  will  have,  difEbrence  5  31  minus,  to  be  taken  from 
the  first  number  2^  36',  which  is  opposite  5  deg.  longitude, 
and  in  the  column  of  5  deg.  latitude.  As  the  seconds  are 
over  30,  call  this  correction  6  min.,  which,  taken  from  2^  36 , 
leaves  the  Moon's  true  declination  2^  30^  which  is  south,  since 
the  Moon,  though  in  a  northern  sign  by  longitude,  is  still 
south  of  the  equator  by  reason  of  her  great  south  ktitude. 

Observe. — If  both  corrections  be  plus,  or  both  minus,  add 
them  together  to  find  the  true  correction,  which  if  plus  add 
to,  and  if  minus  take  from  the  number  opposite  to  the  even 
degrees  of  longitude  and  latitude  which  the  planet  has  just 
passed. 

3d.  The  Right  Ascension. — ^This  is  found  in  my  Tables  by 
the  same  process  as  the  declination :  if  less  than  180  degrees 
it  is  north,  and  if  it  exceed  180  degrees  it  is  south.  It  ia 
counted  from  the  beginning  of  T,  and  is  the  measure  of  a 
right  sphere  or  circle,  which  passes  over  the  meridian  once  in 
24  hours ;  and  as  it  amounts  to  360  degrees,  and  as  l-24th 
of  360  =15,  there  pass  that  number  of  degrees  over  the  me- 
ridian every  hour ;  and  one  degree,  being  the  equivalent  to 
l-15th  part  of  an  hour,  is  equal  to  4  min.  in  time.  Hence  it 
follows,  that  an  error  of  4  min.  only  in  the  supposed  time  of 
a  birth  will  cause  an  error  of  one  entire  degree  in  the  ri^t 
ascension  of  the  meridian.  And  as  all  thc^  aspects  of  the 
planets  to  the  meridian  or  to  the  ascendant  are  measured  by 
right  ascension,  the  error  of  only  one  minute  in  noting  the 
time  of  a  birth  will  cause  an  error  of  15  minutes  of  a  degree, 
or  one  quarter  of  a  degree  in  the  arc  of  direction ;  and  as  the 


GBAMlLiB  OE  ABTBOLOGT.  385 

time  of  eyents  is  ascertained  by  the  right  ascension  of  the 
Son^  which  increases  about  one  degree  in  one  day,  and  as  one 
day  after  birth  answers  to  one  year  of  hfe,  the  result  is,  that 
an  eiror  of  one  minute  in  the  time  of  a  birth  will  cause  an 
error  of  a  quarter  of  a  year  in  the  expected  time  of  an  event. 
This  causes  predictions  to  be  incorrect  as  to  time,  unless  the 
estimated  time  of  birth  be  scrupulously  exact,  or  the  true 
time  be  found  by  comparing  the  arcs  of  direction  with  some 
eyents  which  have  occurred  to  the  native. 

4th.  The  Meridian  Distance. — ^This  is  found  by  taking  the 
difference  between  the  A.B.  of  the  midheayen  and  the  planet, 
if  it  be  above  the  horizon  ;  and  the  difference  between  the 
A.B.  of  the  cusp  of  the  4ih  house  or  north  meridian,  if  the 
planet  be  below  the  horizon.  The  A.R.  of  the  fourth  house 
IB  found  by  adding  180  degrees  to  A.R.  of  the  midheaven  or 
10th  house,  and  if  it  exceed  360  degrees,  take  that  number 
from  it. 

Example. — ^To  find  the  meridian  distance  of  Saturn  in  the 
nativity  of  Lord  Byron's  daughter ; — 

A.B.Satum 311Mr 

A.B.  of  the  Meridian 273    22 


Saturn's  Meridian  distance 37    55 

6Ui.  2%e  Semi'Arc. — ^This  is  the  half  of  the  planef  s  dura- 
tion above  or  below  the  horizon,  and  may  be  measured  in 
hours  or  minutes,  or  in  degrees  and  minutes  of  a  degree. 

Rule  1. — Seek  in  the  Table  of  Ascensional  Difference  for 
the  elevation  of  the  pole  (which  means  the  ktitude  of  the 
country)  where  the  native  was  bom,  and  opposite  to  the  de- 
clination of  the  planet  will  be  found  the  ascensional  differ- 
ence,'*' after  making  proportion  where  required. 

*  Or,  by  logarithms,  the  Hne  of  the  asc.  diff.  =  tang,  pole  +  tang.  dec. 


386  6B1.KMAB  OF  ASTBOLOGY. 

Rule  2. — If  the  planet  have  no  deelinfttion^  it  is  on  the 
eqoator,  and  must  be  just  12  hours  (or  180  d^ees)  above  the 
Earth,  and  the  same  time  below.  But  if  it  have  declination, 
it  most  have  ascensional  difference,  which  is  the  extent  of 
time  it  wiU  be  above  six  hours  in  passing  from  the  horizon  to 
the  meridian,  or  less  than  six  hocprs  in  so  doing.  If  taken  in 
degrees,  it  is  the  extent  above  or  beneath  90  degrees,  which 
it  describes  in  passing  from  the  horizon  to  the  meridian. 

Rule  3. — If  the  planet  be  above  the  Earth,  and  in  north 
declination,  add  the  ascensional  difference  to  90  deg.  to  find 
its  semi.arc ;  and  if  it  be  in  south  declination,  subtract  the 
ascensional  difference  irom  90  degrees  for  its  semi-arc. 

Rule  4. — If  the  planet  be  below  the  Earth  in  north  declina- 
tion, subtract ;  but  if  it  be  in  south  declination,  add  the  as- 
censional difference  to  90  deg.  to  find  its  semi-arc. 

Note. — Having  found  its  semi-arc,  either  above  or  below  the 
Earth,  you  may  find  its  other  semi-arc  by  subtracting  the  one 
you  have  from  180  degrees. 

Example  1. — ^What  is  the  semi-arc  of  Saturn  in  the  nativity 
of  the  Countess  Lovelace  ?— -Saturn  is  above  the  Earth,  and  in 
south  declination ;  he  is  a  shorter  time  above  the  Earth  than 
below ;  therefore  his  asc.  diff.,  which  is  found  under  the  pole 
or  latitude  of  London  51^  32^,  and  opposite  Saturn's  declina- 
tion 18°  57'  to  be  25'*  36',  is  to  be  taken  from  90%  which 
leaves  64°  24'  for  his  semi-arc  diumaL 

By  logarithms  thus : — 

Tang.  51*32' 10.09991 

Tang.  18  57 9.53574 

Sine    25  36 9.63565 

The  Tables  give  one  minute  less. 

Example  2. — The  Sun's  asc.  diff.  under  the  same  latitude  and 
22°  54'  decimation  is  32°  7^ which, taken  from  90°,  gives  57°  5J' 


GBA^MAB  OF  ASTBOLOOY. 


387 


for  tlie  Sun's  semi-arc;  this  doubled  is  115°  46',  and  turned 
into  time  is  7  hours  43  min.  4  seconds,  the  time  of  the  Sun's 
stay  above  the  Earth. 

These  are  the  only  data  required  to  proceed  to  calcukte  the 
arcs  of  direction,  by  which  not  only  the  nature  of  the  events 
which  shall  befall  the  native  may  be  foreseen,  but  also  the 
period  when  they  shall  occur  (to  within  a  few  days)  may  be 
undoubtedly  ascertained. 

For  the  purpose  of  reference,  we  will  here  give  them 
all  in 

A  SPECITLXrH  (OB  TABLE  OP  DATa)  IN  THE  NATITITT  OP 
LOBD  BTBON's  DATJGHTEB. 


1 

4 

1 

-< 

si 

1 

Bd^arks. 

O     / 

The  Moon,  thongh 

¥ 

0.4    N 

21.35  S 

246.^ 

27.19 

60.8  D 

above  the  Earth, 
apparently  by  her 

h 

0.51    S 

18.57  S 

311.  7 

37.55 

64.24  D 

longitude,  is  in  re- 
ality tinder  the  ho- 
rizon, owing  to  her 

V- 

1.8     N 

11.12  S 

210.27 

62.55 

75.34D 

gteat  latitude:  she 
is,  in  fact,  ftirther 

^ 

0.25  N 

8.23  N 

18.42 

74.40 

79.19N 

from  the  horizon 

be  found  by  taking 
her  meridian  dist 

© 

♦      * 

22.54  S 

256.35 

16.47 

57.53D 

SeoT'ftom  her  se- 

V 

2.35  N 

9.36  S 

210.17 

63.5 

77.43D 

mi-arc  SSo^;  the 
diff.,  which  is  al- 

§ 

1.11   N 

19.7  S 

238.24 

34.58 

64.8  D 

ways  the  planet's 
dist  from  the  ho- 

)) 

5.U    S 

2.30  S 

7.15 

86.7 

93.9  N 

rizon,  being  7°  2^, 
while  the  diff.  of 
Mar's  merid.  dist. 

0 

~~~ 

2.30  S 

81.55 

11.27 

93.9  N 

and  semi-arc  is  on- 
ly 4089'. 

c  c 


388  aRAlCMAB  OF   ASTfiOLOGT. 

CHAPTER  X. 

TO  JUDGB  THE  TUTUEB  FATE  BY  THE  riOITBE  Ot  THE  SEXYESS 
▲T  THE  ICOMEKT  OF  BIBTH. 

Remark. — ^The  word  fate  does  not  here  imply  inevitable  fate  ; 
for  though  the  planeta  produce  a  certain  influence  on  the 
native's  affairs,  yet  that  influence  is  capable  of  being  opposed 
by  the  human  will,  and  may  by  that  means  be  either  orer- 
come  entirely  or  greatly  mitigated.  If,  howeyer,  it  be  not 
attended  to,  but  allowed  its  full  scope,  it  will  then  certainly 
produce  its  full  effect ;  and  the  reader  must  remember  that 
astrologers,  in  predicting  events,  always  pre-suppose  that  this  last 
circumstance  will  be  the  case, 

BULB  TO  judge  OP  THE  PEBSOK. 

Consider  the  plmiets  in  the  ascendant,  if  there  be  any,  and 
the  sign  ascending,  and  also  those  planets  which  throw  an 
aspect  to  the  cusp  of  the  ascendant ;  and  make  a  judicious 
mixture  of  these. 

Example, — In  the  nativity  of  Lord  Byron's  Ada,  we  find 
the  Moon  and  Mars  ascending  and  placed  in  f .  The  native 
will  be  of  moderate  stature,  rather  lean  neck,  &c.,  and  her 
eyes  quick  and  darting,  with  a  resolute  glance.  She  will  have 
some  colour,  occasioned  by  Mars  ;  but  yet  the  Moon  tends  to 
give  paleness ;  and  I  have  no  doubt  that  she  has  some  cut  or 
mark  in  the  face.**^  Her  hair  will  be  rather  strong,  and  of  a 
reddish  tint,  though  the  Moon  again  tends  to  correct  this, 
which  is  produced  by  Mars.  The  Sun  is  on  the  cusp  of  the 
9th  house,  throwing  a  trine  aspect  to  the  ascendant,  and 
Saturn,  being  in  the  9tb  degree  of  ^,  throws  a  sextile  aspect 
to  the  ascendant.     The  Sun  causes  a  bright  golden-tinted 

*  I  have,  since  this  was  first  published,  learned  that  it  is  a  large  mole. 


O&AMMAB  OF  ASTBOLOOT*  (989 

hair,  and  Saturn  causes  dark  hair  :  the  result  is,  Uiat^  judge 
that  her  hair  is  what  is  called  a  bright  auburn  colour,  inclining 
to  redness  in  a  very  small  degree.  The  words  of  Ptolemy 
are,  *'  Mars,  ascending,  gives  a  fair  ruddiness  to  the  person,  \ 
with  lai^e  size ;  blue  or  grey  eyes,  a  sturdy  figure,  and  a 
moderate  growth  of  hair.'*  He  says,  "  the  Moon  generally 
contributes  better  proportion  and  greater  dehcacy  of  figure." 
Hence,  I  conclude  that  this  native  is  a  well-made  elegant 
person,  of  extremely  good  carriage.  There  ia  a  conjunction  \^ 
of  Venus  and  Jupiter  in  the  figure ;  and  I  have  observed  this 
produces  fine  blue  eyes.  She  has  then,  in  addition,  beautiful 
eyes,  and  is  a  fine  specimen  of  the  beauty  of  English  females. 
Her  head  is  formed  exactly  as  the  generdity  of  English  heads, — 
large  at  the  top,  and  coming  to  a  point  at  the  chin,  extremely 
similar  in  contour  to  the  face  of  the  ram,  being  born  with  the 
sign  of  the  ram  ascending. 

BULE   TO  JJTDQrlL  OF  THE  MrND. 

Consider  the  sign  ascending  and  the  planets  in  the  ascendant 
(if  there  be  any),  and  those  which  aspect  the  ascendant ;  but 
consider  chiefly  the  Moon  and  Mercury,  how  they  are  situated, 
and  how  they  are  aspeeted  ;  and  remember,  before  judging  of 
the  effect  of  any  planet  upon  the  ascendant,  the  Moon  or 
Mercury,  to  observe  how  that  planet  ia  itself  affected  by 
aspects  of  other  planets  ;  because  the  rules  in  Chap.  III.  are 
to  be  understood  of  the  planets  when  pure  from  the  admixture 
of  others.  Every  planet  acts  upon  every  other  it  aspects,, 
except  the  Moon  and  Mercury,  which  are  purely  passive. — 
N.B.  5  governs  the  intellect,  and  the  })  the  sensual  fa- 
culties. 

Example. — In  Ada's  nativity  we  find  Mars  in  the  ascendant 
in  trine  aspect  to  the  Sun  :  this,  in  the  words  of  Ptolemy, 
renders  her  *^  noble,  imperious,  irascible,  warlike,  versatile,  and 


390  QRUOCAR  or   JLSTBOLOGT* 

powerful  in  intellect."  The  Sun  in  trine  to  Mars  ''co- 
operates to  increase  probity,  industry,  honour^  and  all  laudable 
qualities/'  The  Sun  being  in  good  aspect  to  the  ascendant, 
causes  a  degree  of  pride  or  feeling  of  dignity.  Mars  has  the 
2odi8cal  parallel  of  Venus,  which  Ptolemy  says  ''  renders  the 
mind  cheerful,  docile,  friendly,  complacent,  joyous,  playful, 
frank,  dehghting  in  songs  and  dancing,  amorous,  fond  of  the 
arts  and  of  dramatic  personation,  *  *  brave  *  *  *  sensible, 
cautious,  and  discreet ;  *  *  *  quick  in  anger,  extravagant  in 
expense,  and  jealous."  The  Moon  having  the  conjunction  of 
Mars,  will  render  the  native  bold  and  enterprising,  and  the 
more  so  as  it  falls  in  the  ascendant.  To  this  the  good  aspect 
of  the  Sun  contributes  to  add  an  indomitable  spirit,  which,  if 
occasion  should  offer,  will  display  the  native  to  the  world  a 
perfect  heroine.  The  Moon  and  ascendant  being  in  a  move- 
able sign  will,  however,  add  to  the  versatile  character  of  the 
native,  "  who  will  be,"  says  Ptolemy,  "  susceptible  of  change." 
The  most  remarkable  feature  in  this  nativity,  as  regards  the 
situation  of  Mercury,  is  his  trine  aspect  to  the  Moon ;  as 
good  aspects  between  the  Moon  and  Mercury  are  the  best 
evidence  of  intellectual  ability.  The  native  has  undoubtedly- 
great  talent.  A  farther  proof  of  this  is.  Mercury  being 
several  degrees  from  the  Sun,  as  this  planet,  when  within  a 
few  degrees  (6  or  7)  of  the  Sun,  is  much  weakened.  Mer* 
cury  in  conjunction  with  Herschel,  and  the  Moon  in  trine  to 
Herschel,  renders  the  native  eccentric  and  fond  of  curious 
studies.  The  close  zodiacal  parallel  of  Mercury  with  Saturn 
will  tend  to  add  seriousness  to  the  native*s  character,  and, 
says  Ptolemy,  she  will  be  "  inquisitive,  loquacious,  studious  *  * 
mystical  *  *  improvident,  cUnning,  familiar  with  business, 
quick  in  ]>erception,  petulant y  accurate  (in  judgment),  medi- 
tative, fond  of  employment." 

In  short,  this  is  no  common-place  nativity  ;   this  scion  o{ 


eXlAMMAA  07  ASTBOLOGT.  391 

the  great  Byron  will  inherit  mach  of  his  wonderful  mind,  and 
be  a  shining  star  among  the  fair  nobility  of  England. 

THE  DTJEi-TION  01"  LITE. 

This  point  should  be  decided,  if  it  be  the  nativity  of  a  child 
we  are  about  to  judge,  before  any  other  matter ;  as,  if  the 
heaxens  deny  life,  other  matters  are  of  no  consequence.  The 
hyleg  being  supported  by  benevolent  planets  in  conjunction, 
parallel,  or  good  aspect,  and  being  at  the  same  time  angular 
and  free  from  affliction,  that  is,  the  evil  aspects  of  evil  planets, 
is  the  cAt^sign  oriife  continuing ;  and  in  proportion  as  the 
luminaries  and  ascendant  are  well  aspected  by  the  beneiics 
and  among  each  other,  and  free  from  evil  aspects  of  malefics, 
the  benefics  being  in  angles,  will  the  constitution  be  strong. 
If  the  hyleg,  the  lights,  and  the  ascendant,  be  all  afflicted, 
the  evil  planets  being  angular,  their  ill  aspects  close,  and 
there  be  no  assistance  to  the  hyleg  by  the  good  planets,  the 
child  will  die  in  infancy  :  if  there  be  some  assistance,  but  yet 
the  evil  exceed  the  good,  the  constitution  will  be  weak,  and 
the  first  train  of  evil  directions  will  destroy.  The  last  aspect 
formed  by  the  ©  and  J  is  of  great  importance,  and  must  be 
well  considered. 

N.B.  Weigh  well  all  the  testimonies  before  you  decide. 

Example, — In  Ada's  figure  of  birth,  the'  ©  being  in  the 
9th  house,  is  the  hyleg.  He  has  the  mundane  sextile  of 
Jupiter  and  Venus  nearly,  being  within  9°  21'  of  the  ^  of 
"V,  and  11M4'  of  that  of  ?  .  He  has  also  the  semi-quartile 
of  the  benefics  in  the  zodiac,  which  assist  to  strengthen  the 
constitution,  for  any  aspect  of  the  benefics  has  this  effect,  but 
the  good  aspects  most.  The  benefics  being  in  an  angle,  and 
in  conjunction  with  each  other,  are  powerful,  but  their  power 
is  something  diminished  by  being  in  D  aspect  to  Saturn. 
The  Sun  has  also  the  trine  of  the  Moon  in  the  world,  the 


392  eUAMMAB  OF  ASTBOLOGT. 

Moon  being  7^  2^  inside  the  ascendant,  and  the  Son  2^  31' 
inside  the  9th,  which  houses  are  four  houses  apart,  a  trine 
aspect.  There  is  nothing  more  to  strengthen  the  San,  and  as 
he  has  nearly  a  D  aspect  of  ^ ,  being  only  7°  2'  off,  and  is 
within  9°  7'  of  a  parallel  to  Saturn  from  the  meridian  by  rapt 
motion,  and  is  in  semi-quartile  to  Saturn  in  the  zodiac,  and 
in  zod.  parallel  to  Herschel,  who  is  evil,  though  not  so  much 
80  as  Saturn,  the  hyleg  is  certainly  not  very  strong  in  this 
nativity.  The  evil  of  Saturn  is  somewhat  abated  by  his 
having  a  mundane  A  to  the  two  benefics.  As  to  the  Moon 
and  ascendant,  they  are  so  near  that  they  may  be  judged  of 
together.  The  presence  of  the  Sun  in  A  to  them  both  cer- 
tainly strengthens  those  points ;  but  Mars  being  in  the  ascend- 
ant and  close  to  the  Moon,  and  Saturn  within  5°  46'  of  a 
semi-quartile,  and  Mercury  and  Herschel  near  the  middle  of 
the  8th  in  sesquiquadrate  to  the  ascendant,  weakens  both  of 
them  extremely.  The  evil  clearly  preponderates,  and  (as  may 
be  seen  in  the  Table  of  Directions)  there  being  many  ill  di- 
rections in  infancy  to  the  hyleg  (the  Sun)  and  to  the  Moon 
and  ascendant,  I  am  certain  that  this  lady  had  much  ill  health 
in  infancy,*  and  that  she  has  by  no  means  a  strong  constitu* 
tion  ;  consequently  she  cannot  be  expected  to  be  free  from 
many  serious  attacks  of  illness,  and  it  may  be  judged  that  she 
will  not  Uve  to  a  great  age. 

HtTRTB,  INJURIES,  AIO>  DISEASES. 

The  ascendant  and  its  opposite,  and  the  planets  afflicting 
the  hyleg,  must  be  considered ;  and  judgment  must  be  in- 
ferred from  their  general  character.  If  the  Moon  be  afflicted 
by  the  Sun,  the  native  is  liable  to  injuries  in  the  eyes,  espe- 
cially if  at  the  same  time  she  be  afflicted  by  malefics  and  near 
nebulous  stars,  such  as  the  Pleiades.     And  if  the  0>  being 

'"  Since  this  was  printed  I  have  heard  that  this  was  the  case. 


GBAMMAB  OF  ASTBOLOGT.  393 

hyleg^  be  afflicted  by  Saturn,  that  evil  planet  being  angular, 
the  native  is  liable  to  die  of  consumption.'*'  If  the  ©  be 
setting  at  birth,  and  in  the  sign  Leo  (particularly  when  in 
close  (j  with  the  Asselli  in  6®  of  Leo),  and  be  aflflicted  by 
evil  planets,  the  native  is  liable  to  injury  hjfire;  and  if  the 
Moon  at  the  same  time  be  much  afflicted  by  Mars,  and  Mars 
be  descending,  the  native  is  extremely  likely  to  be  burned  to 
death.  Observe,  that  if  both  ©  and  })  be  afflicted  in  or  near 
the  ascendant,  the  native  is  liable  to  violent  injuries  or  hurts  ; 
and  that  if  the  lights  or  afflicting  planets  are  in  or  near 
the  7th,  especially  near  the  cusp,  then  considerable  diseases 
ensue.i" 

Example, — In  the  nativity  we  have  been  considering,  the 
Moon  being  in  the  ascendant,  in  close  conjunction  with  Mars 
(only  1®  34'  distant),  I  judge  that  the  native  will  be  liable  to 
suffer  some  injury  or  accident  by  a  blow  or  cut  in  the  face, 
and  may  even  have  to  undergo  a  surgical  operation.  The 
period  when  this  is  most  likely  to  occur  depends  on  the  di- 
rections. This  position  renders  her  also  Hable  to  brain  fever, 
&c.  and  flow  of  blood  to  the  head4 

DISEASES  OF  THE  MDO). 

Observe  the  positions  of  Mercury,  the  Moon,  and  ascend- 
ant. K  these  be  unconnected  with  each  other,  and  be  afflicted 
by  Mars  and  Saturn,  these  evil  stars  being  in  angles,  and  no 
assistance  given  by  the  benefics,  the  persons  bom  will  be  sub- 
ject to  epilepsy  or  falling  fits,  and  to  insanity.     If  ''  Saturn 

*  As  was  the  case  with  young  Napoleon. 

f  As  this  work  is  merely  to  teach  the  elements  of  the  science,  the 
student  is  referred  to  Ptolemy  (Bo(^  iiL  chap.  17),  for  further  information 
on  this  head. 

X  This  latter  complaint  I  have,  since  the  first  edition  of  this  work  came 
out,  learned  that  she  suffered  when  a  g;irL 


394  OBAHMAJl  OF  A8TB0L0OY. 

be  80  posited  by  day  and  Mars  by  night,"  the  fonner  diseases 
will  occur ;  but  "  when  Saturn  may  have  dominion  by  night 
or  Mars  by  day  (especially  if  in  Cancer,  Virgo,  or  Pisces), 
the  persons  bom  will  become  insane."  (See  Ptolemy,  Book  iii. 
chap.  19.) 

Example, — Greorge  the  Third  was  born  at  7h.  46m.  a.m. 
June  4th,  1738.  Mars  was  on  the  cusp  of  the  meridian, 
squaring  the  ascendant,  and  in  zodiacal  square  to  the  Moon. 
Mercury  was  conjoined  with  Saturn,  and  neither  the  Moon 
nor  Mercury  in  any  aspect  to  the  ascendant,  or  to  each  other. 
Under  ill  directions  the  royal  native  became  insane,  according 
to  Ptolemy's  rule;  and  but  for  §  having  a  -^f  of  11,  he 
would  have  been  so  much  earlier  in  life.  The  conjunction  of 
Venus  with  Mercury  assisted  also;  but  being  with  Saturn 
and  applying  to  zod.  D  of  <J,  she  could  not  prevent  the  dis- 
ease entirely. 

THE  rOETXTKlB   OF  WEALTH, 

The  position  of  the  part  of  Fortune,  jthe  Sun,  and  more 
especially  the  Moon,  and  the  aspects  to  these,  must  be  referred 
to  for  this  matter.  If  they  be  in  good  position,  that  is,  an- 
gular, and  well  aspected  of  the  bfgnefics  and  among  them- 
selves, the  native  will  enjoy  much  wealth.  If  they  have  a 
cadent  situation,  be  under  the  earth,  and  ajOHicted  by  ill  as- 
pects of  the  malefics  without  any  assistance  from  the  benefics, 
the  native  will  always  be  poor.  If  there  be  a  mixture  of  these 
circumstances,  the  native  will  have  a  middling  portion  of 
riches. 

Jupiter  has  most  power  to  give  wealth.  If  he  be  with  the 
0,  and  in  parallel  with  or  good  aspect  to  the  Moon,  and 
angular,  then  wealth  will  flow  in  upon  the  native  amain.  If 
in  ill  aspect  to  the  ]) ,  he  causes  poverty,  through  extrava- 
gance. 


QHAMMAB  OF  ASTBOLOQY.  395 

SatoTB,  when  strong,  will,  if  throwing  good  aspects  (not 
being  in  conjunction  or  parallel),  give  the  native  wealth  by 
agriculture,  buildings,  &c.,  and,  if  11  assist,  by  inheritance. 

Mars  in  the  same  way  gives  wealth  by  mihtary  means. 
''Venus  by  means  of  friends,  especially  females,  and  by  the 
dowry  of  wives.  Mercury  by  the  sciences  and  by  trade." 
But  ^  being  afflicted  by  £j[  causes  losses  by  pubhc  bodies, 
and  by  writings,  and  sudden  accidents.  The  >  with  1/  in  an 
an^e  brings  riches ;  if  with  ^2 »  poverty. 

THE  rOBTTJNE   OP  BANK. 

''  The  disposition  of  the  luminaries,  and  the  respective  fami- 
Harities,  exercised  by  the  stars  attending  them,  are  to  be  con- 
sidered as  indicative  of  the  degree  of  rank  or  dignity." 
(Ptolemy,  Book  iv.  chap.  3.)  In  addition  to  this  rule,  I  con- 
sider the  mid-heaven.  If  the  luminaries  be  well  placed  and 
sspected,  and  there  be  good  stars  on  the  mid-heaven  or  ap- 
j^oaching  thereto,  or  in  good  aspect  to  that  point,  and  the 
luminaries  be  in  good  aspect  to  each  other,  the  native  will  rank 
high  in  the  world.  If  the  lights  be  cadent,  and  in  no  good 
aspect  to  the  benefics  or  each  other,  and  the  meridian  have  no 
good  aspects  of  the  lights  or  benefics,  the  native  never  gains 
say  fame ;  and  if  ^  afflicts  the  meridian,  he  meets  disgrace. 
If  Mars  be  strong,  and  in  good  aspect  to  the  meridian  and 
tile  lights,  he  may  ghia  martial  fame.  y.  in  the  mid-heaven, 
and  the  Sun  and  Moon  in  •)(*  to  each  other,  the  Moon  having 
the  A  of  7^,  is  one  of  the  best  positions  for  rising  in  the 
▼orld.  This  was  the  case  with  Arthur  Duke  of  Wellington, 
wbo  rose  by  the  power  of  his  stars  to  the  highest  rank.  I 
have  never  seen  this  in  any  other  nativity.  If.  in  the  10th 
boose,  if  not  much  afflicted,  will  alone  cause  the  native  to  do 
extremely  well  in  the  world.  His  being  there  in  'X'  ^o  ])  ^^^ 
©,  raised  Queen  Victoria  to  the  throne.     ^2  ^  t^^at  house,  if 


396  eSAMMAB  OE  ASTBOLOOT. 

not  extremely  well  aspected,  will  bring  him  to  shame  and 
beggary. 

THE  QtriXITY  OP  EMPLOYMENT. 

The  planet  nearest  the  Sun  and  that  which  is  in  the  mid' 
heaven,  (or  aspecting),  especially  if  in  familiarity  with  the 
Moon,  has  most  influence  in  this  question.  If  Mercury 
alone  rule,  he  makes  writers  and  travellers,  merchants,  &c. ; 
connected  with  Saturn,  he  causes  them  to  '*  become  managers 
of  the  affairs  of  others."  If  Jupiter  aspect  him,  they  will  be 
pleaders,  painters,  &c.,  or  hold  office  about  eminent  per- 
sonages. Venus  ruling  makes  wine  merchants,  dealers  in 
colours,  dyes,  perfumes,  drugs,  &c.,  and  dealers  in  garments 
or  apparel,  &c. ;  if  connected  with  Saturn,  she  makes  per- 
sons have  to  do  with  amusement,  players,  jugglers,  &c. :  if 
with  Jupiter,  persons  attending  exhibitions,  &c.,  and  I  believe 
priests,  who  have  much  personal  decoration,  as  Catholic  priests, 
bishops,  &c.,  and  they  will  gain  by  females.  Mars  ruling 
alone  makes  martial  men,  and,  if  in  Cancer  or  Pisces,  naval 
men.  The  Sun  joined  with  him,  being  near  the  mid-heaven, 
or  in  aspect,  makes  persons  dealing  With  fire  or  metals,  the 
latter  especially,  if  in  Taurus  or  Leo.  "  If  Mars  be  separated 
from  the  Sun,  he  makes  shipwrights,  smiths,  agriculturists, 
stonemasons,  carpenters,  and  subordinate  labourers,"  &c. 
"  If  Saturn  bear  testimony,  in  addition  to  Mars,  persons  be- 
come mariners,  workers  in  wells,  vaults,  &c.  under  ground, 
painters,  keepers  of  cattle,  cooks,  butchers,"  &c.  If  Jupiter 
join  with  Mars,  they  will  be  soldiers,  innkeepers,  tax-gatherers, 
mechanics,  &c.  If  Mercury  and  Venus  become  joint  arbi« 
ters  of  employment,  they  produce  musicians,  dancers,  poets, 
weavers,  and  painters,  &c.,  and  sculptors,  if  ^  aspect  5  • 
Jupiter  in  connection  with  them  makes  magistrates  and  sena* 


OBAMMAB  07  ASTBOLOOT.  397 

tors,  as  also  teachers  of  youth.*  Mercury  joined  with  Mars 
makes  surgeons,  statuaries,  boxers,  &c.  N.B.  If  Mercury  be 
most  powerful,  they  will  be  scientific ;  and  if  Mars  be  strongest, 
they  will  be  more  violent  or  wickedly  inclined,  and  cruel  in 
their  practices.  If  Saturn  join  these  two,  they  will  be  thieves 
(especially  if  the  Moon  be  in  iU  aspect  to  Mercury)  and 
swindlers :  if  ])  be  in  iU  aspect  to  $ ,  they  will  be  robbers 
or  assassins.  If  Jupiter  join  $  and  (^,  they  engage  in 
honourable  warfare,  and  are  industrious.  If  Venus  and 
Mars  rule  together,  persons  will  be  dyers,  workers  in  tin, 
lead,  gold,  silver,  medical  drugs,  and  also  physicians.  Saturn 
with  them  makes  undertakers,  grave-diggers,  mutes,  &c. 
Jupiter  ¥dll  bring  them  support,  by  being  placed  to  govern 
over  women,  &c.,  and  as  holders  of  sacred  offices. 

If  the  ])  be  near  the  mid-heaven,  she  causes  many  changes 
of  employment ;  and  in  Virgo  or  Scorpio,  says  Ptolemy  (to 
which  may  be  added  Gemini  and  Pisces),  and  in  connexion 
with  5  (and  especially  if  $  be  on  the  mid-heaven),  she 
makes  astrologers. f  This  is  the  more  likely,  if  Herschel  be 
strong  and  aspected  by  J  or  even  the  }) . 

^    has  especial  influence  over  architectural,  agricultural, 
and  laborious  employments. 

%  over  honourable  and  lucrative  offices,  and  the  church. 

(7  over  military  and  naval  matters,  and  occupations  where 
fire  and  iron  are  much  used. 

$  has  influence  over  ornamental  matters,  decoration,  and 
amusement. 

*  EspedaUy  when  £h  is  on  the  mid-heaven,  and  $  rise  nearest  before 
the  Sun. 

t  It  is  remarkable  that  $  was  in  the  mid-heaven  at  the  birth  of  the  late 
author  of  the  Prophetic  Messenger,  and  the  author  of  the  True  Prophetic 
Messenger,  and  also  of  the  Author ;  the  Moon  in  each  case  having  much 
connexion  with  $  and  V,  and  also  some  other  similar  affections. 


398  aBAMMAB  OF  ASTROLOGY. 

$  rules  literary  and  scientific  occupations,  and  travelling. 

3  causes  changes,  and  some  connexion  with  matters  influ- 
enced by  the  sign  she  occupies. 

0  produces  public  employments. 

J^  causes  employment  out  of  the  common  course  of  life. 

Observe. — ^These  are  merely  the  general  elements  of  the 
science  on  this  head ;  and  if  the  learner  would  ascertain  fur- 
ther particulars,  he  should  study  Ptolemy  (Book  iv.  chap.  4). 
And  here  let  me  advise  him  to  make  due  allowance  for  the 
different  state  of  society  under  which  Ptolemy  wrote,  and  not 
trust  to  modem  strictures  on  that  great  philosopher. 

KABBIAOE. 

As  regards  men,  observe  the  Moon  and  Venus.  If  the  J) 
be  found  between  the  eastern  horizon  and  meridian,  or  in  the 
opposite  quadrant,  she  causes  them  to  marry  early  in  life,  or 
after  they  have  passed  their  prime,  to  women  younger  than 
themselves.  If  she  be  in  the  other  quarters  of  the  figure, 
they  will  marry  late  in  life,  or  to  women  older  than  them- 
selves. If  she  be  configurated  with  Saturn,  it  ddays  mar- 
riage ;  and  if  within  a  few  degrees  of  the  Sun,  or  in  evil 
aspect  to  the  Sun,  the  same :  if  both  these  testimonies  concur, 
the  ])  being  at  the  same  time  occidental,  they  never  marry. 
If  the  ])  be  oriental,  and  especially  if  angular,  and  in  aspect 
to  many  planets,  they  being  strong,  and  she  be  situated  in 
Hi  J,  or  ^,  they  may  marry  more  than  once.  If  the  J) 
apply  to  >2  by  aspect,  the  wife  will  be  morose  and  grave  ;  if 
to  % ,  well  conducted  and  economical ;  if  to  (f ,  bold  and  re- 
fractory; if  to  ?,  cheerful  and  handsome;  and  if  to  5,  ^ 
clever  sensible  woman.  If  J  be  connected  with  11,  ^ ,  or 
5 ,  the  wives  will  be  provident  and  attached  to  their  families. 
If  she  be  connected  with  (J ,  they  will  be  violent  and  ill-con* 
ducted,   especially  if  it  be  by  evil  aspect.     If  the  D  be  in 


OBAMMAB  OF  A8TB0L0GT.  399 

good  aspect  to  the  0,  and  the  ©  be  not  afflicted,  or  if  ?  be 
strong,  the  native  marries  a  person  of  respectable  connexions* 
If  good  planets  be  found  in  the  7th  honse,  the  indiyidual 
(whether  male  or  female)  is  happy  in  marriage ;  and  if  evil 
planets  be  there,  the  reverse.  Herschel  in  the  7th  is  evil ; 
and  if  he  afflict  the  Moon  in  a  man's  nativity,  or  the  Sun  in  a 
woman's,  he  destroys  domestic  happiness.  The  description 
of  the  wife  will  be  much  like  that  of  the  planet  to  which  the 
D  forms  the  nearest  aspect*  considered  with  the  sign  he  is 
in,  as  given  in  my  edition  of  Lilly's  Introduction  to  Astro- 
logy. But  the  sign  on  the  7th  house  may  also  be  regarded. 
No  one,  it  is  said,  marries  a  person  born  under  the  same  sign 
as  himself. 

For  the  marriage  of  women  regard  the  Sun,  Yenus,  and 
Mars.  If  the  ©  be  oriental,  they  marry  early,  or  to  men 
younger  than  themselves,  as  did  Queen  Victoria ;  if  the  ©  be 
occidental,  they  marry  late,  or  to  elderly  men.  If  the  Sun 
be  angular,  and  in  aspect  to  many  planets,  especially  from 
n>  /,  or  K,  they  marry  more  than  once.  Saturn  con- 
figurated to  the  ©  (if  the  0  applies  to  him)  gives  steady 
husbands,  but  morose  ;  Jupiter  gives  honourable,  noble  cha- 
racters ;  Mars  violent,  rash,  unfeeling  men ;  Venus  amiable, 
handsome  husbands ;  and  Mercury  clever,  intelligent,  and 
provident  characters.  If  ?  be  withTj ,  or  in 'aspect  to  him, 
the  husband  will  be  dull  and  laborious  ;  if  with  % ,  just  and 
honest ;  if  with  ^ ,  rash  men  and  adulterous  ;  if  with  ^ , 
clever,  but  fond  of  change.  If  the  ©  or  ])  apply  to  ^^,  the 
wife  or  husband  will  be  eccentric.  If  the  0  have  no  aspect 
with  Mars,  and  Mars  be  weak  in  the  figure,  the  female  native 
does  not  do  well  in  marriage  ;  and  if  the  ©  be  in  ill  aspect 
to  ^2  at  the  same  time,  she  will  be  likely  to  live  single.  The 
7th  house  shews  in  part  the  description  of  husband.  In 
Queen  Victoria's  figure  we  find  /  there ;  and  Prince  Albert 


400  aBA.MMAB  OF  ASTBOLOaT. 

k  a  fair  /  man  in  some  measure,  though  (^  in  T  aspecting 
the  O,  renders  him  somewhat  like  T . 

Example, — In  the  figure  of  the  heayens  at  Ada's  hirth  we 
find  the  G  u^  A  aspect  to  ^ ,  this  planet  being  angular  and 
strong ;  and  this  is  a  proof  that  the  native,  if  she  liye,  will 
marry.  As  the  Q  is  occidental  and  cadent,  I  judge  that  she 
will  not  marry  very  early  in  life,  or,  if  she  do,  that  it  will  be 
to  a  man  some  years  her  senior.*  The  0  has  no  other  appli- 
cation than  the  A  of  (J,  and  therefore,  though  he  be  in  / , 
I  judge  that  she  will  never  marry  more  than  once.  The 
planet  the  0  applies  to  being  <J ,  does  not  promise  a  very 
good  husband ;  but  yet,  as  there  is  a  benevolent  conjunction 
of  %  and  $  in  the  7th  house,  I  believe  that  the  evil  effect  of 
Mars  will  be  corrected ;  and  besides,  as  ^  has  the  parallel 
declination  of  $ ,  who  is  very  powerful,  being  angular  and 
joined  with  % ,  the  native's  husband  will  be  a  good  man, 
fond  of  his  wife,  and  well  conducted  ;  but  he  may  be  what  is 
called  hasty,  and  at  times  a  little  irregular.  ^  m  T  shews 
a  man  who  b  very  respectable,  and  probably  one  who  holds 
some  high  military  rank.f  He  will  be  a  tall,  fine-looking 
man,  with  bushy,  curling  hair,  reddi^ ;  one  who  is  noble 
and  courageous. 

CHILDBEIT. 

The  10th  and  11th  houses,  and  their  opposites,  must  be 
considered.  If  no  planets  be  in  the  10th  or  11th,  consider 
whether  there  be  any  in  aspect  to  them,  or  placed  in  or  as- 
pecting the  4th  or  5th  houses.  The  ])  (especially  if  in  JI 
or  f ,  and  angular),  % ,  and  $ ,  give  o&pring  ^  and  the  0, 

*  She  has,  since  this  was  published,  married  a  man  eleven  yean  her 
senior. 

t  She  married  Lord  King,  who  has  since  been  created  Earl  of  Love- 
lace.   I  am  informed  that  the  above  description  i»  quite  correct. 


a&AlCMAB  OP  ASTBOLOGT.  401 

(J,  and  Tj ,  deny  children,  or  allot  but  few.  §  acts  accord- 
ing as  he  may  partake  of  the  nature  of  the  three  former  or 
three  latter :  and  if  oriental  he  gires  children,  if  occidental 
he  does  not.  If  children  are  promised  by  other  planets,  yet 
(f  or  H  be  found  in  the  5th  house,  especially  in  Q  or  irp, 
the  native  will  lose  many  children,  and  have  much  trouble  by 
them.  If  the  benefics  only  be  in  the  5th,  the  native  has 
much  happiness  by  his  children. 

Example, — In  the  nativity  of  Lord  Byron's  daughter,  we 
find  Vi  in  the  11th  house,  and  (J  in  Q  aspect  to  the  cusp  of 
the  5th  :  these  are  testimonies  of  no  children  ;  but  as  % 
and  $  throw  a  -)(-  to  the  10th,  she  may  have  some  children 
born  ;  but  I  judge  that  she  may  hardly  expect  to  have  above 
one  who  will  live  to  adult  age.* 

TRAVELLING. 

The  Sun,  Moon,  Mars,  and  Part  of  Fortune,  are  to  be  coa* 
sidered.  If  they,  or  the  most  of  them,  be  cadent,  the  native 
will  travel.  If  the  0  alone  be  cadent,  it  will  cause  many 
joumies  ;  but  the  Moon  is  the  chief  significator  of  journeying 
and  voyages.f 

Exttmplea, — In  the  nativity  of  the  Countess  of  Lovelace, 
we  find  the  Sun  cadent  in  the  9th,  and  0  cadent  in  the  3d ; 
hence  I  conclude  that  she  will  take  several  joumies  in  the 
course  of  her  life»  and  be  rather  given  to  travel.  In  the  na- 
tivity of  this  young  lady's  celebrated  father,  the  Moon  and 
Mars  were  both  cadent  in  the  9th,  and  the  Sun  in  the  3d, 
while  the  0  was  just  falling  from  the  7th  angle  ;  and  he,  it 
is  well  known,  spent  most  of  his  days  in  travelling. 

*  She  has  since  had  a  son  born,  when  the  >  par*  ^  D.D.  came  up. 
t  D  being  in  n  or  / ,  causes  many  changes  and  joornies,  especiidly  if 
risings  or  close  to  the  M.C. 


402 


OSAVMAK  OF  ASTBOLOGT. 


THE  KIND  OF  DEATH. 


If  the  ascend^t  and  the  hyleg  be  well  aspected,  and  if 
V*  $  >  )  9  or  $ ,  well  aspected,  be  placed  in  the  Sth  house, 
the  native  dies  a  natural  death.  A  violent  or  remarkable 
death  happens  when  both  the  malefics  attack  both  Q  &i3id  ) , 
6t  even  only  one,  and  at  the  same  time  the  ascendant  be 
afflicted.  If  an  evil  planet  be  placed  in  the  Sth  house,  it  is 
an  additional  testimony  of  a  violent  death ;  but  if  it  be  there 
when  the  other  testimonies  do  not  occur,  then  it  merely 
shews  a  painful  AesJth,  ^  causes  slow  lingering  deaths,  and 
^  causes  them  to  be  more  sudden. 

Rule, — ^The  nature  of  the  death  is  to  be  judged  of  chi^y 
by  the  directions  in  operation  at  the  time  : — 

Saturn  causes  all  cold  diseases,  coughs,  agues,  rheumatism, 
consumption,  dropsy,  &c. ;  and  if  violent  symptoms  are 
perceived,  he  brings  death  by  blows,  falls,  suffocation,  &c., 
the  latter  especially  in  ii\. 

Jupiter  brings  death  by  quinsey,  impure  State  of  the  blood, 
liver  complaints,  diseases  of  the  lungs,  &e*  If  violence  at- 
tend the  death,  it  may  be  by  sentence  of  a  judge. 

Mars  causes  death  by  fever,  woimds,  'spitting  of  blood, 
erysipelas,  childbirth,  &c.  If  by  violence,  he  kills  by  gun 
shot  or  swords,  suicide  or /ire. 

Fenus  produces  death  by  cancer,  scurvy,  dysentery,  dia- 
betes or  wasting  away,  fistula,  and  putrid  diseases.  If  violence 
attend,  she  causes  poison 

Mercury  kills  by  fury,  madnesd,  melancholy,  epilepsy, 
coughs,  and  obstructions.  If  violence  concur,  he  brings  death. 
by  accident  in  sport  or  by  robbers. 

The  Moon, — ^When  the  ascendant  or  ©  be  hyleg,  the 
Moon  will  assist  in  causing  death  by  cold  phlegmatic  diseases, 
and  if  she  be  placed  in  25,  T)l,  or  K,  by  drowning. 


GUAMMAB  OF  ASTfiOLQGY.  403 

The  Sun  will  assist  to  cause  death  by  his  ill  aspects  to  the 
ascendant  or  ])  if  they  be  hyleg,  and  then  he  acts  like  Mars, 
and  if  in  Leo,  will  produce  death  by  eibe,  if  other  testi- 
monies accord. 

Observe. — The  benefics  cannot  cause  death  of  themselves ; 
and  their  D  or  ^f  aspect  will  frequently  save  life  when  they 
fall  amidst  a  train  of  evil  directions.  But  if  the  influence  is 
too  powerful  for  them  to  save,  or  they  be  themselves  vitiated 
or  too  weak  to  save,  then  they  assist  to  cause  death  in  the 
manner  described.  Herschel  cannot  kill  by  himself,  but  his 
ill  aspects  assist  to  destroy  life ;  and  where  they  concur,  will 
produce  something  sudden,  singular,  or  extraordinary  in  the 
nature  of  the  death. 

Eule. — ^Dbath  is  always  gbeated  by  a  tbain  op  evil 

BIBECTIONS  TO  THE  HYLBG  ANB  OTHEB  TITAL  POINTS .       And 

remember  that  if  the  hyle^  be  not  afflicted,  the  life  wiU  not 
be  destroyed,  however  evil  the  directions,  and  however  much 
they  may  injure  the  health. 

Example. — In  the  nativity  of  Ada,  we  find  the  Moon  in 
conjunction  of  Mars  in  the  ascending  angle ;  and  the  Sun 
(hyleg)  applying  to  a  parallel  of  Saturn ;  thus  we  may  con- 
clude that  the  native  wiU  die,  eventually,  of  some  feverish 
compllaint ;  and  though  it  may  carry  her  off  rather  suddenly 
(Iff.  being  in  the  8th),  yet  I  judge  that  it  will  proceed  from 
natural  causes.  It  is  not  unlikely  that  the  position  of  Mer- 
cury in  the  8th  house  (he  having  the  declination  of  Saturn, 
and  therefore  partaking  of  his  evil  nature)  may  bring  on  the 
disease  through  a  severe  cold  or  cough,  and  that  considerable 
delirium  may  attend.  N.B.  This  judgment  is  necessarily 
only  of  a  general  nature ;  as,  according  to  the  rule,  we  must 
look  chiefly  to  the  directions  in  operation  at  the  fatal  period. 

B  B 


404  GEA.MMAS  OF  ASTBOLOGT. 

CHAPTER  XI. 

TO  JUDGE  OP  THE  EFFECTS  OF  DIBEGTIOKS. 

Rule. — CoirsiDEB  well  the  general  nature  of  the  planet 
casting  the  aspect,  and  also  the  manner  in  which  he  is  situ- 
ated as  regards  other  planets  at  hirth ;  and  ohserre,  also,  what 
other  directions  are  near  at  the  time  ;  and  then,  according  to 
the  natiye's  situation  in  life,  judge  of  the  efilect. 

1st.  Saturn  to  an  ill  aspect  of  the  ascendant  brings  cold 
diseases  and  lingering  complaints  ;  in  a  watery  sign,  danger 
of  drowning,  dropsy,  &c. ;  in  a  fiery  or  airy  sign,  danger  of 
faUs,  blows,  &c. ;  in  an  earthy  sign,  accidents  by  being  crushed 
or  bruised,  or  buried  alive.  His  ill  aspects  to  the  M.  C.  cause 
injury  to  the  native's  affairs  by  death  of  relations,  being 
wronged  by  elderly  persons,  and  a  general  tendency  to  dis- 
grace, trouble,  and  misfortune.  His  ill  aspects  to  the  Sun 
produce  similar  effects,  with  much  evil  to  the  native's  father, 
quarrels  with  persons  in  power  or  with  his  relations,  especi- 
ally his  father.  To  the  Moon,  much  mischief  to  the  native's 
health,  and  many  troubles ;  his  affairs  go  wrong,  and  he  is 
generally  unfortunate,  and  very  unpopular.  To  the  ©,  loss 
of  property  by  various  means,  often  imperceptibly.  The  A 
or  -X-  of  Saturn  to  the  ascendant  or  the  }) ,  renders  the  native 
grave  and  steady,  and  tihese  aspects  to  either  of  the  five  mode- 
rators (viz.  0,  }),  0,  ascendant,  and  M.  C.)  will  produce 
benefits  by  old  persons,  legacies,  &c.  also  by  dealing  in  land 
or  houses,  or  with  saturnine  people  or  things. 

2nd.  Jupiter, — ^The  good  aspects  to  either  of  the  modera- 
tors produce  prosperity,  increase  of  wealth,  new  friends, 
honourable  employment,  the  birth  of  children  or  their  settle- 
ment in  life,  and  an  improved  state  of  health^  and  much 
happiness.  This  planet  never  causes  marriage.  The  semt- 
^uartile,  Q,  ^f,  or  S  S  D>  will  cause  quarrels  with  clergy- 
*  The  0  does  not  affect  health. 


GRAMMAR  OF  ASTBOLOGT.  405 

men,  magistrates,  landlords,  &c.,  losses  in  trade  or  by  travel- 
ling, &c. ;  bat  unless  11  be  extremely  ill  aspected  at  birth, 
his  ill  aspects  by  direction  will  not  cause  any  permanent  evil. 

3rd.  Mars, — His  evil  aspects  produce  accidents  by  fire, 
fire-arms,  cuts,  blows,  injuries  by  animals,  &c, ;  also  violent 
diseases,  especially  if  thrown  to  the  hyleg,  deatH  of  relations, 
&c.  In  airy  signs  he  causes  faUs  ;  in  fiery,  fevers,  hurts  by 
fire;  in  earthy,  pestilential  complaints;  in  watery,  scalds, 
fluxes,  penl  by  water,  and  inflammations.  He  causes  losses 
by  robbers,  firaud,  &c. ;  and  by  means  of  military  men,  or 
persons  in  power,  he  brings  various  injuries.  But  although 
his  conjunction  with  O  is  reckoned  an  evil  aspect,  it  will  (if 
he  be  well  aspected  at  birth)  sometimes  cause  military  ho- 
nours, or  success  in  tbe  native's  trade  or  profession,  when  it 
is  to  the  mid-heaven.  His  -)(-  or  A  causes  military  employ- 
ment, or  advancement,  the  birth  of  children  (generally  males), 
joumies  and  success  in  trade  or  employment,  especially  if  a 
surgeon,  chymist,  or  dealer  in  metals.  His  good  aspects 
frequently  cause  marriage  in  a  female  nativity,  except  those 
to  ©,  which  give  increase  of  wealth  only. 

4th.  The  Sun. — The  Sun  acts  in  a  medium  manner  between 
the  nature  of  Jupiter  and  Mars.  If  he  come  to  c^  of  the 
ascendant,  being  at  birth  well  aspected,  he  may  give  fame  and 
reputation,  and  the  native  is  successful  in  all  matters  con- 
nected with  people  in  power.  If  he  be  ill  aspected,  he  is 
likely  to  give  disease  in  the  head ;  and  if  in  a  fiery  sign,  or 
if  the  Sun  be  afflicted  by  Mars,  it  causes  fevers.  The  cS  vith 
the  M.  C.  will  cause  honours,  if  well  aspected  at  birth ;  but 
if  in  conjunction  with  Mars  at  birth,  he  may  very  likely  cause 
evil.  The  0  coming  to  d  ^^  T>  ^^  cause  journeys ;  and 
if  5  be  well  situated,  it  gives  some  preferment;  if  otherwise, 
it  brings  sickness,  especially  humours  in  the  head,  diseases  in 
the  eyes,  &c.     It  frequently  happens  that  the  native  marries 


406  0&A3£MAB  OF  ASTBQLOGT. 

under  this  direction,  especially  if  others  tending  to  prodnce 
marriage  accompany  it ;  but  as  it  generally  makes  him  fickle 
and  extravagant,  such  marriages  are  not  fortunate,  unless  ^ 
be  yery  well  situated  at  birth.  The  good  aspects  of  the  Sun 
to  the  ascendant,  M,  C,  ]) ,  or  0,  also  his  arrival  by  direc- 
tion to  his  own  •)(- ,  produce  benefits,  preferment,  increase  of 
wealth,  marriage,'^  children,  &c.  If  he  be  well  placed  and 
aspected  at  births  his  return  to  his  own  declination  will  also 
cause  benefits,  good  success,  &c.  His  evil  aspects  cause  dis- 
ease, disgrace,  loss  of  friends,  death  ef  relations,  and  many 
evils.  His  arrival  at  his  own  semi-quartile  is  evil ;  his  own 
square  extremely  so. 

5th.  Venus, — Her  good  aspects  produce  health,  and  give  an 
inclination  to  enjoy  pleasure  and  amusement.  She  causes 
benefits  by  females,  marriage,  the  birth  of  children,  their  set- 
tiement  in  life,  &c.  Her  evil  aspects  cause  trouble  by  females 
and  by  free  living,  producing  disease  and  discredit,  disi^pcHnt- 
ment  in  marriage,  slander,  and  many  vexations.  If  the  train 
of  directions  which  causes  death  have  amongst  it  a  Q  <h*  ^f 
of  Venus,  and  she  be  evil  at  birth,  it  may  cause  the  native  to 
be  poisoned.  The  M.  C.  to  the  (f  of  $  will  sometimes  cause 
marriage,  but  then  it  is  rash  and  attended  with  trouble. 

6th.  Mercury, — ^The  good  aspects  cause  journeys,  removals, 
much  activity  in  business,  and  successful  law-suits.  Also 
satisfaction  by  means  of  children  or  young  persons,  literary 
characters,  booksellers,  &c.,  and  literary  fame  or  success.  His 
evil  aspects  cause  trouble  by  similar  means,  and  also  frauds  by 
young  persons,  servants,  &c.  The  situation  of  ^  at  birth 
must  be  particularly  noted,  especially  those  planets  he  is  in 
zodiacal  parallel  with,  as  he  partakes  strongly  of  the  nature 
of  those  planets  he  is  connected  with  by  aspect  or  decimation, 
and  will  act  accordingly.     If  he  be  evil  at  birth,  and  should 

*  Fortune  produces  wealth  only. 


GRAKMAB  OY  A8TB0L00T.  407 

ceme  to  c^  or  ill  aspect  of  the  ])  or  the  hyleg,  he  firequently 
caoses  mental  diseases^  epilepsy,  &c. 

7th.  The  Moon, — Her  good  aspects  to  the  ascendant  or 
M.  C.  generally  cause  changes  in  life  for  the  better,  long  jour- 
neys, voyages,  remoyals,  &c. ;  to  the  Sun,  they  give  honours 
and  emoluments,  profitable  employment,  popular  favours,  &c. 
and  marriage ;  to  the  0,  the  same,  or  benefit  by  females, 
going  to  sea,  &c. ;  to  her  own  ^  or  parallel,  either  in  the 
world  or  the  zodiac,  the  same ;  but  these  latter  will  depend  on 
her  condition.  Her  ill  aspects  cause  the  reverse,  and  if  to 
the  hyleg,  will  give  cold  or  dropsical  diseases ;  if  in  a  watery 
sign,  danger  by  water.  Her  (j  with  the  Q  will  cause  fevers 
if  the  Sun  be  evil  at  birth,  and  the  moon  be  hyleg.  It  causes 
an  unsettled  state  of  affairs,  losses,  many  changes,  journeys, 
and  much  vexation,  if  the  Sun  be  evil ;  also  diseases  in  the 
eyes,  if  it  fall  near  the  Pleiades,  Hyades,  or  other  nebulous 
fixed  stars.  If  the  Sun  be  fortunate  at  birth,  it  may  give 
marriage  or  preferment,  and  profitable  journeys. 

8(h.  HerscheL — This  planet  is  notyetthoroughlyunderstood. 
His  conjunction,  parallels,  or  ill  aspects  produce  evil,  gene- 
rally of  an  unexpected,  sudden,  or  uncommon  nature,  but  in 
a  far  less  degree  than  either  Saturn  or  Mars.  His  good  as- 
pects produce  benefits  in  the  same  way.  He  causes  benefits  or 
troubles  by  means  of  public  bodies  and  public  writers. 


CHAPTER  XII. 

OF  MUKDAKB  ASFE0T8  AND  DIBBCTIOKS. 

Thsbb  are  some  modem  astrologers  who  question  the  reality 
of  mundane  aspects.  But  this  can  only  arise  from  lack  of 
soffident  experience,  combined  with  the  difficulties  which  arise 
from  imperfectly  rectified  nativities.  I  would  refer  such 
doubters  to  the  nativity  of  Elizi^bsth  of  Clabbkoe,  bom 


408  0EA1OL4.B  07  ASTBOLOGY. 

5^  5"  P.M.  10th  Dec.  1820,  as  an  instance  of  the  effect  of 
mundane  aspects.  She  died  at  the  age  of  four  months,  on  the 
4th  of  March,  1821.  The  pubUc  papers  gave  the  time  of 
birth ;  and  it  will  be  seen  that  there  is  no  zodiacal  aspect  to 
account  for  death,  the  hyleg  haying  only  the  semi-square  of 
^2 .  But  there  are  the  mundane  squares  of  ^,  (J,  and  0,  the 
latter  within  three  degrees,  and  being  extremely  evil  from 
being  near  (5  ^i^  (?>  ^^^  ^  mundane  SS  D  with  I2  •  'The 
D  has  also  the  mundane  S  Q  with  Saturn. 

The  positions  of  the  planets  as  regards  their  relative  dis- 
tances from  each  other  in  the  twelve  houses  produce  this  kind 
of  aspects,  which  are  extremely  powerful  in  their  operation. 
If  they  occur  at  birth,  they  act  upon  the  native  all  through 
life;  if  they  are  found  afterwards,  they  influence  him  for 
some  weeks  (sometimes  months)  at  that  period  of  life  to 
which  their  arc  extends. 

A  mundane  •)(-  is  when  two  planets  are  two  houses  apart. 
Thus  O  on  the  meridian  at  noon  and  If.  on  the  cusp  of  the 
8th  house  are  in  mundane  •)(- .  If  G  be  half  through  the  9th, 
and  11  half  through  the  7th,  they  are  still  two  houses  apart, 
and  in  mundane  -)(-.  If  0  be  on  the  cusp  of  the  9th  and 
7/  be  in  the  7th,  he  will,  when  he  arrives  at  the  cusp  of  the 
7th,  be  arrived  by  direction  at  the  ©'s  -)(• :  and  if  11  at  birth 
be  just  below  the  7th  and  the  0  in  the  9th,  he  will  when  he 
arrives  at  the  same  distance  below  or  past  the  9th  (in  propor- 
tion to  his  semi-arc  as  compared  with  1/.  's  semi-arc),  be  also 
arrived  at  11  's  •)(•. 

A  mundane  Q  is  the  distance  of  three  houses  apart.  Thus, 
if  ])  be  rising  at  noon  or  midnight,  when  0  is  on  the  meri- 
dian, they  are  in  mundane  a>  being  three  houses  apart ;  the 
same  if  ])  be  setting  at  those  times. — Example :  In  Ada's 
nativity  we  find  ^  a  short  distance  outside  the  cusp  of  the 
9th,  and  T?  a  short  distance  outside  the  12th  house;  they 


0BAMMJLK  OF  A8TB0L0OT.  409 

are,  therefore,  nearly  in  mundane  O  ;  And  as  it  is  an  evil 
aspect,  they  mutoally  increase  each  other's  evil. 

A  mundane  A  is  four  houses  apart.  Thus  in  Ada's  figure 
of  birth  the  Q  being  near  upon  the  cusp  of  the  9th  and  ]) 
near  the  1st  house  (which  are  four  houses  apart)  we  say  that 
the  luminaries  are  in  mundane  A*  The  effect  is  fortunate, 
and  upholds  the  native's  honour  and  character. 

A  mundane  f  is  six  houses  apart.  Thus,  a  star  rising  and 
another  setting  are  in  mundane  opposition. 

A  mundane  eemi-quartile  is  one  house  and  a  half  apart. 

A  mundane  eesquiquadrate  is  four  houses  and  a  half  apart. 

A  mundane  quintile  is  one-fifth  of  two-thirds  of  the  semi- 
arc  of  the  planet  you  direct  more  than  the  ^, 

A  mundane  biquintUe  is  one-tenth  of  the  planet's  semi-arc 
more  than  the  sesquiquadrate. 

Remark. — ^These  mundane  aspects  are  all  measured  by  the 
semi-arcs  of  the  planets  ;  therefore 

A  semi-quartile  is  one-half  of  a  planet's  semi-arc. 

A  -^  is  two-thirds  of  ditto. 

A  Q  is  an  entire  semi-arc.  n 

A  A  is  equal  to  a  semi-arc  and  one-third  more. 

A  eeequi^uadrate  is  equal  to  a  semi-arc  and  a  half. 

And  observe,  that  whenever  an  aspect  is  measured  between 
two  planets,  any  other  aspect  may  be  ascertained,  if  it  also 
fidl  in  the  same  hemisphere,  by  merely  taking  the  relative 
proportion  of  the  semi-arc  of  the  planet  to  be  durected.  Thus, 
if  we  know  the  distance  between  two  planets,  that  is  the  arc 
of  direction  to  the  conjunction ;  then  one-half  of  the  semi- 
arc  of  the  planet  which  is  directed,  added  to  that,  will  give  the 
arc  of  direction  to  the  eemi-quartile  ;  by  adding  one-sixth  part 
of  the  semi-arc  to  this,  we  have  the  arc  of  direction  to  the 
-X* ;  one-third  more  of  the  semi-arc  will  give  the  0>  and  another 
third  the  A  :  to  which  add  one-sixth  for  the  sesquiquadrate* 


410  OBAIOCAB  OT  AlTBOLOeT. 

N.B.  If  the  planet  directed  should  pass  the  horucon  in 
forming  either  of  these  aspects,  that  is,  if  the  arc  of  direction 
should  he  longer  than  the  planet's  distance  from  the  horizon, 
then  its  other  semi-arc  most  he  used  for  those  aspects  which 
fidl  beyond  the  horizon.  Great  care  is  to  be  taken  to  avoid 
errors  by  taking  the  wrong  semi-arc  :  this  may  be  done  by 
observing,  that  if  the  aspect  £eJ1  above  the  earth,  the  semi- 
diurnal arc  is  to  be  taken ;  and  if  below  the  earth,  the  semi- 
nocturnal  arc  of  that  planet  wJdeh  is  directed  is  to  be  taken. 


CHAPTER  XIIL 


OF  THE   MUKDAinS  FABALLELS. 


These  are  as  important  as  any  mundane  aspect  in  their  effects, 
both  at  birth  and  when  found  by  direction,  l^ey  consist  of 
equal  propcnrtioual  distances  from  the  meridian  ;  thus,  if  two 
stars,  having  the  same  semi-arcs,  are  at  an  equal  distance  from 
the  meridian  on  opposite  sides,  they  are  in  mundane  parallel. 

Example, — If  Q's  semi-arc  be  60®,  and  he  be  20"*  distant 
from  the  meridian,  while  ]> ,  having  also  the  semi-arc  of  60®, 
be  20°  distant  from  the  meridian,  they  are  in  mundane 
parallel.  If,  however,  the  Q  be  so  situated  while  the  >  has 
the  semi-arc  of  120®,  or  double  that  of  ©,  she  will  require 
to  be  40®  distant  from  the  meridian,  or  double  the  Q's  dis- 
tance, to  be  in  mundane  parallel  with  him. 

Example, — In  the  nativity  of  Ada,  1?  ^  placed  in  the  1 1th, 
at  the  distance  of  37°  55'  from  the  meridian,  his  semi-are 
being  64®  24'.  The  Sun  is  in  the  9th,  approaching  to  a 
parallel  distance  from  the  meridian  with  Saturn ;  the  Q  has 
the  semi-arc  of  57°  53',  which  is  less  than  that  of  T^  ;  there- 
fore, when  the  Sun  is  at  a  distance  of  34*  5'  from  the  meri- 


e&UOCAB  OF  ASTB0L06T.  411 

dian,  he  will  be  in  mimdane  parallel  with  ^ ,  because  the 
O's  semi-arc  bears  the  same  proportion  to  34®  5'  as  ^  's  semi- 
arc  bears  to  bis  distance  from  the  meridian,  which  is  37°  55'. 


CHAPTER  XIV. 

or  THE  PABT  OF   FOETUNB. 


Whateyeb  distance  the  Sun  is  from  the  Moon  (measured  by 
oblique  ascension),  so  far  is  the  Part  of  Fortune  firom  the 
Ascendant :  hence,  if  the  Q  be  exactly  ascending  at  birth, 
the  place  of  0  will  be  exactly  that  in  which  the  Moon  is  at 
that  time ;  therefore,  to  find  the  right  ascension  of  0,  ob« 
serye  the  following : — 

Rule.— KM  90"  to  the  A.R.  of  the  M.C.,  and  it  will  give 
the  oblique  ascension  of  the  Ascendant.  From  the  oblique 
ascension  of  the  Ascendant  subtract  the  oblique  ascension  of 
the  Sun  (having  first  added  360**  to  the  former,  if  it  be  less 
than  the  latter)  ;  to  the  remainder  add  the  A.R.  of  J :  the  sum 
willbe  the  A.R.  of  0. 
J2rflii9?fe.— In  Ada's  nativity,  the  A.R.  of  the  M.C.  is 273«  22' 

To  which  add    90      0 

Oblique  Ascension  of  Ascendant 363    22 

Sobtract  Q's  obUque  ascension 288    42 

Remainder 74    40 

To  which  add  })  's  A.R 7     15 

It  gives  the  A.R.  of  $    81    55 


TO  YTSD  THE   SITTJATIOK  OF   THE   PABT  OP  FORTTTNE   IN 
THE  FIOXJRE  AT   BIBTH. 

Rule. — Find  its  dbtance  from  the  nearest  meridian  ;  bear- 


412  aBAJOIAB  OF  ASTBOLOaT. 

ing  in  mind  that  the  0  is  always  under  the  horizon  before 
the  fall  Moon,  at  which  time  it  is  on  the  ensp  of  the  7th 
house,*  and  that  after  fall  Moon  it  is  always  aboYC  the 
horizon. 

Example, — In  Ada's  nativity  the  0  is  under  the  horizon, 
because  the  ])  had  not  reached  the  full.  The  A.B.  of  the 
meridian  under  the  earth  is  93°  22^,  from  which,  if  we  take 
the  A.B.  of  0  SI""  55',  the  remainder  is  11*"  27',  the  distance 
of  0  from  the  meridian,  which,  as  it  does  not  amount  to 
one-third  of  the  semi-arc  of  0  (93*"  901  shews  that  0  is  in 
the  3d  house. 

N.B.  The  semi-arc  of  0  is  always  that  of  the  ]) ,  if  they 
are  both  above  or  under  the  horizon ;  but  if  one  be  above, 
and  the  other  under  the  horizon,  the  0  will  have  the  opposite 
semi-arc  to  > ,  which  may  be  found  by  taking  the  send-arc  of 
])  from  180  degrees. 

Observation, — Mr.  Wilson,  in  his  "Dictionary  of  Astro- 
logy," p.  306,  says  that  the  Part  of  Fortune  *'is  really 
nothing  but  a  phantom  hatched  in  the  figurative  brain  of 
Ptolemy,  which  has  no  influence  whatever."  I  certainly 
must  demur  to  this  dictum,  as  I  have  found  by  experience 
that,  if  calculated  in  the  manner  I  have  here  explained,  and 
the  directions  to  it  be  correctly  calculated  also,  and  no 
false  directions  made  (such  as  aspects  in  the  zodiac,  which 
do  not  apply  to  0),  there  wiU  be  found  very  considerable 
effects.  I  respect  Mr.  Wilson  as  a  friend  of  truth ;  but  I 
think  that  in  treating  of  Astrology  he  has,  in  some  few  in- 
stances, thought  too  much  of  reason  and  too  little  of  expe- 
rience. It  is  true,  that  we  cannot  explain  the  influence  of  0, 
nor  can  we  explain  that  of  any  planet;  but  we  must  re- 
member, that ''  two  bodies,  at  a  distance,  will  put  one  another 
into  motion  by  the  force  of  attraction ;  which  is  unexpHcable 
*  If  D  hare  no  latitude* 


GBAMMAB  OF  ASTBOLOGT.  413 

by  US,  though  made  evident  to  us  by  experience,  and  so  to  be 
taken  as  a  principle  in  natural  philosophy."^  These  are  the 
words  of  the  great  Locke  ;  and  they  justify  our  faith  in  the 
influence  of  0  if  made  eyident  **  by  experience,'*  though  it 
be,  indeed^  "  unezplicable"  by  reason,  in  our  present  state  of 
knowledge. 

CHAPTER  XV. 

OF  THE  HTLEG  AKB  THE  HYLEGIAOAL  PLAGES. 

The  hyleff,  or  giver  of  life,  is  first  the  ©,  if  found  in  a 
hylegiacal  place ;  2d,  the  } ,  if  she  be  so  found,  when  Q  is 
not ;  lastly,  the  luminaries  being  neither  of  them  in  hylegiacal 
places,  the  degree  ascending  becomes  hyleg.  The  hylegiacal 
places  are  from  5  degrees  above  the  ascending  horizon  to  25 
degrees  below  it,  measured  by  oblique  ascension ;  also  from 
half  way  between  the  ascendant  and  mid-heaven  unto  5 
degrees  beyond  the  cusp  of  the  9th  house ;  lastly,  from  5 
degrees  below  the  8th  house  to  5  degrees  below  the  7th  or 
descendant. 

N.B.  The  ascendant  or  J  receiving  evil  aspects  by  direction 
will  at  all  times  be  likely  to  affect  the  health,  whether  hyleg 
or  not.  And  if  the  Moon  be  beyond  the  exact  5  degrees  of 
any  hylegiacal  house,  yet  if  within  a  short  distance,  she  will 
cause  a  great  deal  of  danger ;  and  if  the  hyleg  be  at  the  same 
time  afflicted,  though  only  slightly,  the  native  will  very  pro- 
bably die.  It  has  been  said  that  if  0  be  in  a  hylegiacal  place 
when  neither  luminary  is  so  situated,  it  becomes  hyleg.  This 
doctrine  has  never  yet  been  confirmed  by  my  own  experience ; 
nor  should  I  direct  to  it  as  hyleg,  because  I  have  hitherto 
found  that  its  chief  effects  were  upon  the  native's  pecuniary 
circumstances.     Lilly,  speaking  of  the  directions  to  ®,  says. 


414  QRAMMAJBL  OE  ASTBOLOaX. 

'*  thereby  to  be  certified  of  the  state  of  riches  and  goods 
moyeable,  the  times  of  increase  or  decrease,  &c."  And  I 
beheye  the  effects  of  0  are  confined  to  these  subjects  chi^y, 
though  it  may  affect  his  family  affedrs. 

N.B.  The  planet  in  d  with  0  will  greatly  influence  the 
nature  of  the  native's  property,  which  will  be  according  to 
the  character  of  that  planet. 


415 


SECOND  BOOK. 


CHAPTER  I. 

ZODIACAL     DIRECTIONS. 

The  O,  J>  ,  ascendant,  and  mid-heaven,  only  can  be  directed 
in  the  zodiac*  The  principle  on  which  these  directions  are 
to  be  made  is  the  subtraction  of  the  oblique  ascension  ot 
either  of  the  first  three,  taken  under  its  own  pole,  from  the 
obUque  ascension  of  the  place  of  the  aspect  taken  under  the 
same  pole. 

The  pole  of  the  ©  or  >  is  a  certain  elevation  they  have 
firom  the  meridian  towards  the  horizon :  hence,  if  they  be 
exactly  on  the  meridian  they  have  no  pole,  and  the  arc  of 
direction  must  be  found  by  right  ascension  :  hence  also  the 
mid-heaven  itself,  having  no  pole,  must  be  directed  by  right 
ascension  only.  If  the  Q  or  ])  be  exactly  on  the  horizon, 
they  will  have  the  polar  elevation  of  the  horizon  itself;  which 
is  always  the  latitude  of  the  countfy.  The  ascendant,  when 
it  is  directed  in  the  zodiac,  must  always  be  directed  under  the 
pole  or  latitude  of  the  place  of  birth. 

There  being  some  difference  of  opinion  as  to  the  proper 
mode  of  calculating  poles,  it  may  be  proper  to  explain  the 
nature  of  the  pole  of  a  star,  or  house. 

If  we  examine  the  horizon  of  any  place  on  the  equator,  we 
shall  find  the  poles  of  the  heavens  therein,  and  in  a  line  with 
the  poles  of  the  Earth.  Now,  if  we  quit  the  equator  and 
proceed  towards  either  pole  of  the  Earth,  we  necessarily  raise 

*  Some  modem  artists,  as  well  as  PladdtUf  dispute  the  power  of  the 
tmglet  thas  directed.    I  have  had  innumerahle  proofs  of  its  existence. 


416  GBAMMAB  OT  ASTROLOGY. 

that  pole  of  the  heavens  hy  an  arc  exactly  equal  to  the  extent 
of  the  latitade  we  amve  at  from  the  equator.  If,  therefore, 
we  were  to  reach  London,  in  latitude  51°  32'  N.,  we  should 
find  that  the  north  pole  of  the  heavens  had  become  elevated 
above  the  horizon  by  an  arc  exactly  equal  to  that  latitude. 
Wherefore  we  say,  that  the  elevation  of  the  pole  of  the  horizon, 
or  let  house,  is  the  latitude  of  the  country.  If  we  reached 
9il**  of  latitude,  or  the  pole  of  the  Earth,  we  should  elevate  the 
pole  of  the  heavens  to  our  zenith. 

The  circles  of  latitude  are  small  circles  of  the  sphere  having 
their  planes  parallel  with  the  plane  of  the  equator.  And  the 
cntCLES  OP  PosiTioK  of  all  bodies  between  the  meridian  and 
horizon  are  analogous  to  these  circles  of  latitude,  being  small 
circles  of  the  sphere,  having  their  planes  parallel  with  the 
plane  of  the  meridian.  The  circle  of  position  of  a  planet,  &c. 
has  a  certain  point  where  it  and  the  pole  of  the  planet  in- 
tersect the  equator.  It  may  be  found  by  the  following 
analogy : — 

As  the  semi-arc  of  the  planet 

Is  to  90®  of  the  equator. 

So  is  the  meridian  distance  of  the  planet 

To  the  distance  in  Right  Ascension  of  its  circle  of 
position  from  the  meridian. 

Having  found  the  circle  of  position's  distance  from  the  me- 
ridian, we  have  only  to  find  the  difference  between  it  and  the 
distance  of  the  planet  itself,  and  we  obtain  the  ascensional 
difference  of  the  planet  under  its  own  pole.  Then  to  discover 
the  POLAE  ELETATiON  of  the  planet,  &c.,  say. 

As  Rad.  Sme  gO"" 

Is  to  the  Co.  Tang,  of  Declin. 

So  is  Sine  of  Ascensional  Difi^ 

To  Tang,  of  pole. 


0BA.iaOJt  OF  ASTBOLOaX.  41 


Observe  here  that  the  aaceruianal  difference  of  any  place  in 
a  given  latitude  (or  polar  elevation)  is  exactly  that  which  any 
body  has  as  determined  by  its  distance  from  the  meridian ; 
a9cennonal  difference  being  in  both  cases  the  difference  be- 
tween right  and  oblique  ascension.  Therefore  the  proportion 
of  the  stars'  ascensional  difference^  as  connected  with  its  semi- 
arc,  may  be  taken  to  find  its  polar  elevation. 

To  learn  the  ascensional  difference  (as,  for  example,  that 
of  the  Sun  with  23®  28'  declination  in  the  latitude  of  London) 
say. 

As  Rad.  Sine  90® 10.00000 

To  Tang.  23^28' 9.63761 

So  Tang.  Lat.  51®  32' 10.09991 

To  Sine  Asc.  Diff.  33«  r 9.73752 

Suppose,  then,  that  the  Sun  is  one-third  of  his  distance 

from  the  meridian  to  the  horizon  below  the  meridian,  and  we 

would  know  his  polar  elevation,  say. 

As  Rad.  Sine  W 10.00000 

To  Co.  Tang.  23«  28'   10.36239 

So  Sine  of  i  of  33*  7=11^  2'  20" 9.28211 

To  Tang,  of  the  Sun's  pole  23«  48' =  9.64450 

This  is  the  pole  of  the  11th  and  9th  houses  in  the  latitude 
of  London,  each  being  one-third  of  the  distance  from  the  me- 
ridian to  the  horizon.  To  prove  it  correct,  we  have  only  to 
seek  for  the  ascensional  difference  in  the  latitude  of  23®  48' ; 
thus, 

As  Rad.  Sine  90® 10.00000 

To  Tang.  Dec.  23®  28' 9.63761 

So  TaDg.  Pole  23M8' 9.64450 

To  Sme  Asc.  Diff.  11®  2'  20" =-  9.2821 1 


418  eBAMMAB  OF  ASTBOLOGT. 

By  these  formulae  haye  the  poles  of  the  houses  (as  di?ided 
hy  the  immortal  Ptolemy,  and  demonstrated  by  Plaeidus) 
been  calculated.  They  have  ewer  been  found  to  agree  with 
events  in  nature,  as  they  do  with  the  true  principles  of 
geometry. 

Observe, — ^The  place  of  the  aspect  or  promittor  must  be 
taken  without  latitude  in  all  directions  in  the  zodiac,  except 
those  of  the  }  ;  for  when  )  is  directed  to  any  point,  the 
latitude  she  will  have  when  she  arrives  at  that  point  must 
first  be  ascertained.*  If  the  j)  be  directed  to  the  conjunction 
of  any  planet,  and  when  she  arrives  at  the  longitude  of  that 
point  she  should  have  great  latitude  of  an  opposite  nature  to 
the  planet,  l^o  that  there  shall  be  6  or  more  degrees  difference 
of  latitude  between  them,  the  direction  will  have  little  or  no 
effect.  If,  for  example,  $  have  5  degrees  north  latitude,  and 
]) ,  when  she  comes  to  c^  of  $ ,  have  5  degrees  of  south  lati- 
tude, then  the  cS  "'^  ^*vc  no  power.  If  it  should  be  to  an 
^,  however,  then  the  exact  opposite  place  of  $  would  have 
5  degrees  of  contrary  latitude,  and  the  aspect  (if  ])  had  5** 
south  and  ?  5°  north  latitude)  would  be  perfect.  Therefore 
we  must  observe,  that  if,  on  coming  to  an  ^ ,  the  ^  have  ex- 
tensive latitude  of  the  same  name  as  the  planet,  the  direction 
is  weak. 


CHAPTER  II. 


TO  DIBECT  O  TO  AST   ASPECT  IN  THE  ZODIAC,  EXCEPT 
A  PAEALLEL. 

FiBST.  Find  the  0  s  polar  elevation  from  the  meridian,  by 
the  analogy  in  the  previous  chapter. 

*  Partridge  directed  ])  also  sme  latitudine  ;  bat  I  doubt  the  power  of 
such  directions. 


GRAMMAR  OF  ASTBOLOGT.  419 

ExanqiU, — ^In  Ada's  nativity,  (from  which  we  will  take  all  our  exam- 
ples), the  0's  semi-arc  is  57o  53',  and  0's  meridian  distance  is  16o  47'. 

1st.  Add  the  arithmetical  complement  of  the  proportional 

logarithm  of  0's  semi-arc 9.5073 

To  the  proportional  logarithm  of  90o    3010 

And  the  proportional  logarithm  of  0  meridian  distance    . .  1.0304 


.8387 


The  snm  is  the  proportional  logarithm  of  the  difference  of 

its  circle  and  that  of  the  meridian     26<»    2' 

2d.  Subtract  the  0^8  meridian  distance   16   47 

The  diffierence  is  0'8  ascensional  difference  m  his  pole  —  9    15 

3d.  Rad.  s.90«    10.00000 

To  logarithm  sine  of  ascensional  difference,  9°  15' 9.20613 

So  logarithm  co-tangent  of  0'8  declination  22°  54'=    ....     10.37426 

To  logarithm  tangent  of  the  polb  of  0  =  20°  50'    9.58039 

S£CO]!n).  Ascertain  the  oblique  ascension  of  Q  under  his 
own  pole,  if  he  be  ascending,  or  his  oblique  descension,  if  he 
be  descending. — N.B.  Q  is  ascending  from  midnight  till 
noon,  and  descending  from  noon  till  midnight. 

Rule  1. — Add  the  ascensional  difference  to  the  A.  R.  if  the 
declination  be  south,  but  subtract  it  from  the  A.  R.  if  the 
declination  be  north :  the  result  is  the  oblique  ascension. 

Rule  2. — For  the  oblique  descension  do  the  reverse  :  add 
the  ascensional  diflference  if  the  declination  be  north,  subtract 
it  if  the  declination  be  south, 

JE»o»^fe.—The  0's  A.  R.  is 256°  35' 

The  declination  is  southf  therefore  subtract  the  ascen- 
sional difference  9    15 

It  gives  0's  oblique  descension  under  his  pole 247    20 


420  GBAMHAB  OP  ASTROLOGY. 

Thied.  Find  the  declination  of  the  place  of  the  aspect,  and 
look  in  the  tahles*  for  the  logarithm  of  its  tangent ;  to  which 
add  the  log.  tangent  of  Q's  pole.  The  sum  will  be  the  log. 
Mine  of  the  aspecfs  ascensional  difference  under  that  pole. 
'With  this  ascensional  difference  find  its  oblique  ascension  or 
descension,  as  you  did  that  of  ©  f. 

Lastly.  Subtract  that  of  ©  from  that  of  the  aspect,  and 
the  remainder  will  be  the  aec  of  dibectiok. 

Eraw^fe.— Direct  the  O  to  Q  of  D  in  the  zodiac.  The  ;^  is  in  T 
5<*  39' :  when  0  comes  to  Vf  b9  39',  he  will  form  a  O  aspect  to  the  place 
of  })  at  hirth. 

The  declination  of  the  aspect  yp  5o  39'  is  23^' 21'  its  log. 

tangent  9.63519 

The  logarithm  tangent  of  the  Q's  pole  20®  50'  is    9.58039 

Their  stim  is  the  log.  sine  of  the  ascensional  diffisrence  of     

theo^pec^under  0'8pole9°27'    ».• • 9.21558 

Then  from  the  A.  R.  of  w  5°  39'^  which  is 276     9 

Subtract  the  ascensional  difference,  as  its  declination  is 
touth 9  27 

It  leaves  the  ohlique  descension  of  the  aspect  under  0's 

pole 266  42 

From  which  subtract  the  oblique  descension  of  0  under 

0'spole    247  20 

And  this  will  be  the  arc  of  direction  of  0  Q  }>  in     

zodiac 19  22 

To  those  who  think  the  above  a  tedious  operation,  we  ob- 
serve, that  if  the  ©'s  pole,  &c.  be  once  found,  in  all, other 
of  the  directions  you  have  only  to  go  through  the  last  two 
heads  of  the  rule.     And,  moreover,  the  whole  of  these  as- 

*  The  best  extant  are  "  Logarithmi  VI  DecvmaUumi,  auctore  G,  F,  Ur» 
tino  ;''  but  a  less  expensive  and  very  convenient  set  have  been  pul^ished 
by  Taylor  and  Walton. 

t  By  adding  it  to  or  subtracting  it  from  A.  R.  of  the  aspect 


6RAMMAB  OF  ASTROLOGY.  .  421 

pects  in  zodiaco  may  he  worked  by  means  of  the  semUarcs^ 
ndthout  reference  to  poles  or  the  use  of  logarithms.  The  in- 
yariable  rule  is  this  : — 

As  the  semi-arc  of  the  signijicator  (0,  J,  or  ase,)  is  to 
its  distance  from  the  meridian,  so  is  the  semi-arc  of  the  place 
of  the  aspect  to  its  2nd  distance.  The  sum  or  dijference  of 
aspect^ s  PRIMABT  AND  SECONDAET  distance  from  the  meridian 

is  the  ABC  OP  DIRECTION. 

Example. — As  semi-arc  0  is  to  0*8  meridian  distance,  sa  is  the  semi- 
arc  of  vy  5^  39'  to  its  second  distance,  which  add  to  its  primary  meridian 
distance. 


CHAPTER  III. 

TO  DIRECT  O  TO  A  PARALLEL  IN  THE  ZODIAC. 

Rule  1 . — Look  in  the  table  of  declination  for  the  declina- 
tion to  which  you  desire  to  direct  the  0,  which  you  will  find 
in  the  column  marked  0  at  the  top ;  then  note  what  longitude 
it  answers  to  in  the  first  column,  and  find  the  A.  R.  answering  • 
to  this  longitude. 

Rule  2. — ^The  log.  tang,  of  the  dec.  +  log.  tang,  of  the 
pole  of  O  =  the  log,  sine  of  the  ascensional  difference  of 
the  aspect  under  that  pole. 

Rule  3. — Find  the  oblique  ascension  or  descension  of  the 
aspect,  according  as  the  ©  is  ascending  or  descending ;  and 
from  it  take  the  oblique  ascension  or  descension  of  the  ©  : 
the  remainder  is  the  arc  op  direction. 

Example. — Required  to  direct  the  Sun  to  the  parallel  declination  of 
Herschel,  in  Ada's  nativity. 

The  declination  of  l|i^  is  21**^  35^^  south,  which  is  the  declination  0  mYL 
have  when  he  reaches  vf  22®  30',  the  A.  R.  of  which  is  294°  19'. 


422  GUAMMiJt  OP  ASTEOLOar. 

To  the  log.  tangent  of  21»  35' 9.59725 

Add  the  log.  tangent  of  the  pole  of  O,  20°  50'    9.58039 

The  sum  is  the  logarithm  tine  of  the  ascensional  difference 
of  the  aspect  under  the  pole  of  0,  8°  39' 9.17764 


Then  from  the  A.  R.  of  the  aspect    * .       294  19 

Take  the  ascen.  difference  as  hefore 8 .39 

It  gives  the  oblique  descension  of  the  aspect  under  the  pole 
of  0 285  40 

From  this  subtract  the  oblique  descension  of  0  under  his 
pole  247  20 

And  there  remains  the  arc  of  direction  of  0  to  a  zodiacal 
parallel  of  IjJ 38  29 


CHAPTER    IV, 

TO   DIBSGT  THE   MOOK  IK  THE   ZODIAC  TO  ANT    ASPECT  EX- 
CEPT A  PARALLEL. 

FiBST.  As  in  case  of  ©,  find  the  J  *s  pole  and  her  oblique 
ascension  or  descension  under  her  pole. 

1st.  To  find  the  pole  of  J,  add  the  proportional  log.  of 
])  's  semi-arc  (taking  its  arithmetical  comp.)  to  the  propor- 
tional logarithm  of  90**,  and  the  proportional  log.  of  J's 
meridian  distance ;  the  sum  is  the  proportional  log.  of  the 
difference  of  the  circles  of  position. 

2nd.  The  diflFerence  between  the  meridian  distance  of  J 
and  the  difference  of  the  circles  of  position  =  the  ascensional 
difference  of   })  under  her  pole. 

3rd.  The  log.  sine  of  the  ascensional  difference  -f  the  lo- 
garithm co-tangent  of  the  ])  's  declination  =  the  log.  tangent 
of]) 's  pole. 


OBJLHMAB  OP  ASTBOLQ0T.  423 

Extm^le. — ^Find  ^  's  pole  in  Ada's  nativity. 

Proportional  log.  of  })  's  semi-arc  93®  ^  (its  arith.  comp.)  9.7139 

Ditto  log.  of  90  degrees 3010 

Ditto  log.  of  }>  's  mend.  dist.  86®  7' 3202 

Ditto  log.  of  the  difference  in  

circle  of  position 83   12 3351 

D  's  asc  diff.  in  her  pole 2  55  log.  sine  of  this  ....     8.70658 

Add  log.  co-tangent  })  dec.  2°  30' 11.35991 

Sum  is  log.  tangent  of  j>  's  pole  49<>  22^ 10.06649 

Sbcoot).  1.  To  find  the  oblique  ascension  of  ])  in  her 
pole,  add  the  ascensional  difference  if  the  declination  be 
south  ;  subtract  the  ascensional  difference,  if  the  declination 
be  norths  to  or  from  the  A.  B. 

2.  To  find  the  oblique  descension,  do  the  reverse. 

Example, — ^A.  R.  of  })  7«  15'  +  asoens.  diff.  2®  55'  «  oblique  ascens. 
of  ]>  in  her  pole  10®  10'. 

Thibd.  Find  the  oblique  ascension  or  descension  of  the 
aspect  under  the  pole  of  ]) ,  and  subtract  the  ])  's  oblique 
ascension  or  descension  from  it :  the  remainder  is  the  abo  op 

DIRECTION. 

N.B.  The  latitude  of  the  })  in  .the  aspect  must  be  first 
noted  to  find  her  true  A.  B.  and  declination  therein. 

Exanqtle. — ^Direct  ])  to  c^  of  <J  in  Ada's  nativity. 

Mars  is  in  20<^  26'  of  T ,  at  which,  when  the  >  arrives,  she  will  have 
40  45'  south  latitude,  and  3°  34'  north  declination ;  then  the  log.  tangent 
of  this  declination  8.79470  +  the  log.  tangent  of  the  pole  of  })  10.06649 
=  the  log.  sine  of  the  ascensional  difference  of  the  aspect  in  ])  's  pole 
4»  10'=8.86119. 

The  A.  R.  of  20«  26'  T  with  4°  46'  south  latitude  is  20«  40'  —  the 
ascens.  difference,  the  declination  being  norths  4<*  10'  =  the  oblique  ascen- 
sion of  the  aspect  in  pole  of  }) ,  I60  31'. 

Lastly. — T?ie  aspecfs  oblique  ascension  in  the  pole  of  }>  16°  30'— 
the  oblique  ascension  of  D  in  her  pole  10®  10'  =  the  are  of  direction  of 
^  (S  S  zodiac,  60«  20'. 


424  aRAMMiJt  or  ASTEOLOaT* 

N.B.  To  work  this  by  semi-arcs,  say,  semi-arc  ])  t  meridian  distance 
}; : :  semi- arc  of  r  io^  26'  with  4<»  45'  south  latitude:  second  distance 
of  ditto.  Then  difference  of  meridian  distance  and  second  distance  =  arc 
of  direction. 


CHAPTER  V. 

TO  DIRECT  THE  MOON  TO  PAEAiLELS  OF  DECLUfATIOX. 

Rule  1. — Look  in  the  Ephemeris  for  the  days  succeeding 
the  birth,  and  see  at  what  time  the  ])  falls  on  the  dechnation 
you  require ;  then  calculate  by  proportion  the  latitude  and 
longitude  she  will  have  at  that  time. 

Rule  2. — Find  the  A.  R.  for  that  latitude  and  longitude, 
and  talce  from  or  add  to  it  the  ascensional  difference  given  by 
the  required  declination  under  the  })  's  pole  :  the  result  will 
be  the  oblique  ascension  or  oblique  descension  of  the  cispect ; 
the  JD  's  oblique  ascension  or  deacension  taken  from  which 
will  leave  the  arc  or  dieectiok. 

N.B.  Fmd  jD's  pole  as  .taught  in  Chap.  IV. 

Example, — I  desire  to  bring  })  to  a  parallel  of  3  's  declination  in  Ada's 
nativity. 

I  find  that  the  D  's  declination  on  the  12th  December  is  7°  22^,  and  on 
the  13th  it  is  12'*  16' ;  then,  if  the  difference  4°  54'  is  equal  to  24  hours, 
what  will  the  difference  between  the  declination  at  noon  on  the  I2th, 
7°  22',  and  the  declination  of  <?  8<»  23',  which  is  1®  1',  amount  to  ?  An- 
swer, 4  hours  59  minutes ;  at  which  time,  on  the  12th,  I  find  the  >  is 
in  longitude  2°  30'  b ,  with  4°  10'  south  latitude. 

The  A.R.  answering  to  this  latitude  and  longitude  is  31°  58'.  Then 
the  logarithm  tangent  of  the  declination  <?  8°  23',  9.16841  +  log.  tangent 
of  the  5)  's  pole  49*»  22',  10.06649= log.  sine  of  the  aspect's  ascensional 
difference  9o  55'=  9.23590. 


G&A.MMAB  OP  ASTB0L06T.  425 

o       / 

.  Kow,  £roin  the  A.R.  of  the  aspect 31  58 

Take  the  ascens.  difference  under  the  }>  's  pole 9  55 

It  leaves  the  oblique  ascension  under  the  D  's  pole 22    3 

From  ¥rhich  subtract  the  J>  's  oblique  ascension  in  her  pole. ,    10  10 

The  remainder  is  the  arc  of  direction  of  the  )  to  the 
zodiacal  parallel  of  (^    «,.« , 1153 

N.B.  There  are  no  directions  more  powerful  than  the  paral- 
lels in  the  zodiac ;  they  merit  the  greatest  attention.  It  is 
ohserved  that  their  eflFects  are  felt  a  few  weeks  before  the  arc 
of  direction  is  complete. 


CHAPTER  VI. 


TO  DIBECT  THE  ASCENDANT  TO  ASPECTS  IK  THE  ZODIAC. 

Rule  1 . — ^Add  90**  to  the  A.R.  of  the  mid-heaven  at  birth, 
and  it  gives  the  ohlique  ascension  of  the  ascendant  under  the 
pole  (or  latitude)  of  birth. 

Rule  2. — Look  in  the  Table  of  Dechnations  for  the  declin- 
ation of  the  aspect,  which  is  found  in  the  column  marked  0 
at  the  top,  opposite  its  longitude. 

Rule  3. — Find  the  A.R.  of  that  longitude  without  latitude. 

Rule  4. — ^To  the  log.  tangent  of  the  pole  of  the  ascendant 
add  the  log.  tangent  of  the  declination  of  the  aspect :  the 
sum  will  be  the  log.  sine  of  its  ascensional  difference. 

Rule  5. — Take  this  ascensional  difference  from  the  A.R.  if 
the  declination  be  northy  or  add  it  thereto  if  the  declination 
be  south :  the  result  is  the  oblique  ascension  of  the  aspect 
nnder  the  pole  of  the  country. 

Lastly, — The  oblique  ascension  of  the  aspect  —  the  oblique 
ascension  of  the  ascendant  =  the  aeo  op  dieectiok . 


426  GBAHICAB  OF  ASTBOLOGY. 

ExttnqiU. — ^Direct  the  ascendant  to  Q  ^  in  the  zodiac. 

1.  The  A.R.  of  the  mid-heaven  is  273<»  22',  to  which  add  90o,  and  we 
have  363^  22' :  as  it  is  beyond  360°,  deduct  the  circle  from  it,  and  we 
hare  3°  22^  for  the  oblique  ascension  of  the  ascendant  under  its  pole. 

2.  The  Oof  h  falls  in  80  36' of  0 ,  the  declination  of  which  is  i4<»23'. 

3.  The  iLR.  of  8»  36'  of  »  is  36o  12'. 

4.  Log.  tangent  of  the  pole  of  the  1st  house,  51**  32',  10.09991 
+  log.  tangent  of  the  declination  of  8*  36'  »    14**  23,         9.40900 


=  log.MM«  of  its  ascensional  difference  IS^  50'  19.50891. 

5.  The  A.R.  of  the  aspect  36<>  12'— the  ascens.  difference  18^  50'  = 
oblique  ascension  of  the  aspect  17°  22'. 

Lastly, — From  this  take  the  oblique  ascension  of  the  ascendant  3o  22^, 
the  remainder  is  the  arc  of  the  ascendant  D  1^  zodiac  14°  0'. 


CHAPTER  VII. 

TO  DIBECT  THE  MID-HEA.TEN  TO  ASPECTS  HT  THE  ZODIAC. 

JKuZtf.— The  A.R.  of  the  aspect— A.R.  of  M.C.  =  the  abo 

OF  DIBECTIOK. 

JSrampfe.^Find  the  arc  of  the  M.C.  D  of  <^  in  the  zodiac. 

A.  R.  of  the  D  of  <J  in  (vf  20°  260  292°  7'— A.  R.  of  M.C.  273^22' 

=^  the  ARC  OF  DIRECTION  18°  45'. 


CHAPTER  VIII. 


OF  MUKDAlfE  DIBECTIONS  TO  THE  ANGLES  ;   THAT  IS,  TO  THE 
ASCENDANT  OB  M.  C. 

These  are  merely  the  divisions  of  the  semi-arcs  of  the  planets; 
thus,  ^  is  a  semi-quartile  ;  |-  a  •)(- ;  the  whole  of  the  semi-arc 
a  D  ;  one  semi-arc  and  ^  of  another  a  A  ;  one  semi-arc  and 
a  half,  a  sesquiquadrate,  &c.  A  semi-arc  always  bearing  the 
same  proportion  to  the  12  houses  as  90  degrees  do  to  the 
circle  or  12  signs  of  the  zodiac,  it  follows  that  f  of  it  form  a 
•X-  aspect,  as  f  of  90°  are  60*»,  a  ^  in  the  zodiac,  &c,  &c. 


GEAMMAB  OP  ASTBOLOGY.  427 

To  find  the  Arc  of  Direction  to  a  Semi-quartile  of  the  M,C. 

Rule. — ^The  difference  between  half  the  semi-arc  and  the 
meridian  distance  of  the  pknet  is  the  abo  oe  dibectiok  ; 
because,  when  the  planet  is  exactly  half  its  semi-arc  off  the 
M.C.,  it  is  in  semi-quartile  aspect  to  that  angle. 

Exan^le. —  h  semi-arc  is  64°  24' ;  half  is  32*  12^,  which  taken  from 
\i  *%  meridian  distance  37°  55',  gives  the  arc  of  M.  C.  to  the  semi-quartile 
ofh  5«  43'. 

To  find  the  Arc  of  Directum  to  a  ^  of  M.C 

Rule. — ^The  difference  between  the  planet*  s  meridian  dis- 
tance and  f  of  its  semi-arc  is  the  arc  of  direction. 

iSran^ife.— 2-3  of  0*8  semi-arc  38»  35'— 0's  meridian  distance  16°  47' 
=  21°  48',  the  arc  of  direction  of  M.  C.  ^0. 

To  find  the  Are  of  Direction  to  a  U  of  M.C. 

Rule. — ^The  planet's  semi-arc  —  meridian  distance  =  arc  of 
direction. 

Exany?le, — ^The  semi-arc  of  ^  75°  34'— meridian  distance  of  %  62P  55' 
=  arcofM.C.  D  %  12°  3^.* 

To  find  the  Are  of  Direction  to  a  A  of  M.C. 

Rule^ — If  the  planet  be  above  the  Earth,  add  one-third  of 
its  semi-arc  (nocturnal)  to  the  arc  for  its  Q  of  M.C.  If  under 
the  Earth,  the  difference  between  its  meridian  distance  and  f 
of  its  semi-arc  is  the  arc  of  direction. 

Example. — H-  being  above  the  Earth,  the  arc  of  M.  C.  D  'H-  12o  39' 
H-  1.3  of  the  semi-arc  of  %  (nocturnal)  Z4P  49'  =  arc  of  M.  C.  A  2/L 
470  28'. 

INFEBIOB   ASPECTS. 

To  find  the  Arc  of  the  Quintile  to  the  M,C. 
Rule. — ^If  the  quintile  be  in  the  7th  house,  take  \  of  the 
*  This  is  when  "4  sets  or  comes  to  the  7th  house,  which  is  asc.  ^  If.  • 


428  ORAMMAB  OF  ASTBOLOOT. 

semi-ftrc  from  the  arc  for  the  D  •  If  it  be  in  the  12th  hoose^ 
subtract  from  \-  of  the  semi-arc  the  distance  the  planet  is 
from  the  ascendant. 

Example  1.— The  O's  semi-arc  57"  53' —  O  meridian  distance  16** 
47'  =  M.  C.  n  O  41»  16'  — 1-5  of  O  semi-arc  11°  35'  =^  M.  C.  quintile 
0  29«  31'. 
Example  2.— Semi-arc  of  the    >    (diurnal)  is  86°  51',  of        « 

whichl-5is 17     22 

Then  17°  22'  is  the  distance  the  J)  must  be  from  the  as- 
cendant to  form  the  quintile  with  the  M.  C. ;  and  as  D 
is  not  yet  risen,  her  distance  from  the  ascendant  7°  2' 
must  be  added  to  it 7      2 

ArcofM.C.  quintile  of  the  })     24     24 

To  find  the  Arc  of  the  Sesquiquadraie  to  the  M,C. 

Rule. — If  in  the  2d^  subtract  \  of  the  semi-arc  from  the 
arc  for  the  A  J  if  in  the  5th,  add  i  of  the  semi-arc  to  the 
arc  for  the  A. 

Another  Rule. — Take  half  the  planet's  semi-arc,  and  find 
the  difference  between  it  and  the  planet's  meridian  distance, 
which  will  be  the  arc  to  the  semiquartile  of  the  4th  house,  or 
sesquiquadrate  of  the  M.C. 

Example. — 1-G  of  the  semi-noctunial  arc  of  2^  17*^  24'  +  arc  for  his 
A  to  M.  C.  47°  28'  =  64°  52',  the  M.  C.  to  the  sesquiquadrate  of  2^  .* 

To  find  the  Arc  of  the  Biquintile  to  the  M.  C. 

Rtt/e.— To  the  arc  for  the  sesquiquadrate  add  ^  o?  the 
semi-arc  if  the  aspect  fall  in  the  5th  house,  and  subtract  ^\^ 
of  the  semi-arc  if  it  fall  in  the  2d  house. 

N.B.  Tliis  direction  is  of  no  consequence  with  the  ctiI 
planets ;  it  is  but  weak  with  the  benefics. 

*  This  is  also  asc.  S.  S.  n  V., 


PBAMHAB  or  ASTBOLOaT.  429 

To  find  the  Arc  to  the  d  or  ^  of  M.  C. 

Rule. — If  the  planet  be  ascending,  its  meridian  distance  is 
the  arc  to  the  c5  M.  C. ;  and  if  it  be  descending,  its  meridian 
distance  is  its  arc.  to  the  ^  of  M.  C.  This  needs  no  ex- 
ample. 

TO  DIBECT  THE  ASOEin)ANT  IN  MUNDO. 

To  find  the  cJ  or  the  ^  of  any  Star  with  the  Ascendant, 

Bute. — If  the  planet  be  between  the  4th  house  and  the  as- 
cendant, its  semi-arc  —  its  meridian  distance  =  the  arc  to  the 
c5 .  If  it  be  between  the  10th  house  and  7th  house,  its  semi- 
arc  —  its  meridian  distance  =  the  arc  to  the  ^ . 

Example. — ^Mars  is  between  the  4th  and  ascendant ;  its  senii-arc  79o  19^ 
—  meridian  distance  of  S  74°  40'  =  arc  of  direction  of  the  ascendant 
d  if  40o  39'. 

To  find  the  -^  or  A  of  any  Planet  to  the  Ascendant. 

Rule, — If  above  the  Earth,  its  meridian  distance  —  l-3d 
of  its  semi-arc  =  the  ►)(• ;  if  below  the  Earth,  and  ec^t  of  the 
4th,  I -3d  its  semi-arc  —  its  meridian  distance;  but  if  west 
of  the  4tii,  -f  its  meridian  distance  =  Me  -Jf . 

If  above  the  Earth,  and  east  of  the  10th,  its  meridian  dis- 
tance +  l-3d  of  its  semi- arc ;  but  if  west  of  the  10th,  its 
meridian  distance  —  l-3rd  of  its  semi-arc  =  the  A*  If  under 
the  Earth,  the  meridian  distance  —  l-3d  of  its  semi-arc  = 
the  A. 

The  quintile  to  the  ascendant  is  l-5th  of  the  planet's  semi- 
arc  from  the  meridian,  either  above  or  below  the  Earth. 

The  sesquiguadrate  is  the  semi-quartile  from  the  M.  C.  if  it 
fall  in  the  8th  house  ;  if  it  fall  in  the  5th,  it  is  the  sesquiquad- 
rate  from  the  M.  C,  or  semi-quartile  from  the  4th  house. 

The  semi-quartile  is  in  the  semi-quartile  from  the  M.  C.  if 


430  eSAMMUl  OF  ASTBOLOOT. 

it  fall  in  the  11th ;  if  it  fall  in  the  2d,  it  is  the  sesquiquad- 
rate  from  the  M.  C. 

The  hiquintile  is  1-1 0th  of  the  planet's  semi-arc  beyond  the 
middle  of  the  8th,  or  semi-quartile  from  the  M.  C.  If  it  fall 
in  the  5th,  it  is  1-1 0th  of  the  planet's  semi-arc  to  be  taken 
from  the  arc  to  the  sesquiquadrate  of  the  M.  C. 

N.B.  The  shortest  way  is  to  find  one  direction  to  the  as- 
cendant or  M.  C,  and  then  add  or  subtract  the  portion  of  the 
planet's  semi-arc  to  find  the  others. 

Exan^U.-^Qfn  arc  to  A  of  ascendant  is  2«  SCK  40^';  add  l-Sd  of 
the  semi-arc  of  0  19»  17'  40",  and  it  giyes  21®  48',  for  M.  C.  ^  O,  which 
is  0's  distance  from  the  8th ;  add  l^rd  again,  and  it  gives  41<*  6', 
the  arc  for  M.  C.  O  0  or  ascendant  g  0.  Take  from  41o  6'  the  l-5th 
of  0's  semi-arc,  it  gives  29*  31'  for  M.  C.  quintile  0.  Take  half  0*8 
semi-arc  from  41<*  6',  and  it  gives  12<*  W,  the  M.  C.  semi-qnartile  0, 
which  ii  also  ascendant  sesquiquadrate  0. 


CHAPTER  IX. 

TO  DIBECT  0  OB   ])   TO  ANT  ASPECT  IK  THB  WOBLD    (eICEFT 
parallels)  by  OOKTEBSE  MOTIOIT. 

When  0  or  J,  above  the  Earth,  are  moved  onwards  to 
form  the  aspect,  from  the  east  towards  the  west,  or  below  the 
Earth  from  the  west  towards  the  east,  it  is  termed  a  OOK- 

TEB8B  DIBECTIOK. 

Rule  \, — As  the  semi-arc  of  the  planet  to  whose  aspect  0 
or  ^  is  directed  is  to  that  planet's  distance  withm  or  without 
a  certain  house,  so  is  the  semi-arc  of  0  or  ])  to  the  second 
distance  of  0  or  ])  from  the  house  which  forms  the  required 
aspect  with  that  from  which  the  planet's  distance  is  taken. 

Bule  2. — Find  the  apparent  or  primary  distance  from  the 
said  house,  and  take  the  sum  or  difference  of  the  two  dis<» 
tances  according  as  the  0  or  ])  falls  short  of  or  passes  the 


gbammJlB  of  asteologt.  431 

cusp  of  the  house,  for  the  abc  of  DntBCTioif .  If  the  aspect 
is  formed  before  the  ©  or  ])  passes  the  house,  the  difference^ 
but,  if  they  pass  the  house  to  form  the  aspect,  the  mm  must 
be  taken. 

Erampfc  1.— Required  the  arc  of  O  D  \  converse? 

Semi-arc  of  \  64®  24' :  \  's  distance  from  the  12th  (outside)  4«  55' : : 
semi-arc  of  O  57°  53' :  O's  second  distance  from  the  9th  outside,  4°  25'. 

As  the  0  has  to  pass  the  9th  to  form  the  D »  add  the  dbtance  of  the 
0  from  the  9th,  which  is  the  arc  of  ascendant  A  0  2«  32',  the  mm  is 
6°  57',  0  D  h  converse. 

Example  2.--Required  the  arc  of  direction  of  the  ])  to  the  D  of  0  by 
converse  motion  ? 

Semi-arc  of  0  57°  53' :   0*8  distance  inkide  the  9th,  2°  32' : :  semi  " 
arc  of  the  ^  (diurnal)  86°  51' :  second  distance  of  >    VMtde  the  12th 
3°  48'. 

To  find  the  })  's  primary  or  actual  distance  from  the  12th,  add  l-3rd 
her  semi-arc  dhtmal  to  her  distance  from  the  1st  house  7°  2' :  86°  51',  of 
which  l-3rd  =  28°  57'  +  7'*  2^  =  the  })  's  primary  distance  from  the  12th 
35°  59' — her  seewd  distance  to  the  12th  3°  48'  =  32°  1 1',  arc  of  j)  Q  0 
converse. 

N.B.  That  semi-arc,  whether  diurnal  or  nocturnal  must  be  taken  where 
the  planet  is  when  the  aspect  is  completed.  The  Moon  at  Ada's  burth  was 
under  the  Earth,  but  when  she  formed  the  D  with  the  place  of  the  0  at 
birth,  she  was  near  the  12th  house ;  of  course,  her  diurnal  semi-arc  must 
betaken. 

To  work  with  proportional  logarithms,  the  rule  is  to  add 
the  logarithms  of  the  2nd  and  3rd  numbers  together,  and 
take  from  their  sum  the  logarithm  of  the  1st  number, 
which  will  leave  the  logarithm  of  the  4th  number.  But 
a  shorter  method  is  to  take  the  arithmetical  complement  of 
the  logarithm  of  the  1st  number,  instead  of  the  logarithm 
itself;  and  then  add  all  three  Ic^rithms  together,  and  the 
result  will  be  the  same.  The  arithmetical  complement  of 
a  logarithm  is  what  it  wants  of  10.0000.  The  common  way 
to  find  it  is  to  take  each  figure  from  9,  beginning  at  the  left 
hand,  except  the  right  hand  figure,  which  must  be  taken 
from  10. 


432  OBAinCAB  OF  ASTBOLOOT. 

ExmnqtU. — ^What  is  the  arithmetical  complement  of  the  proportional 
logtrithm  of  fj  's  semi-arc  64®  24'. 

Its  proportional  logarithm  is  4464.  As  there  is  no  index,  the  arithme- 
tical complement  will  have  9  in  the  index ;  then  4  from  9  are  5  ;  and  4 
from  9  are  5  ;  and  6  from  9  are  3 ;  and  4  from  10  are  6  ;  which  will  stand 
thus,  9.5536.  If  the  index  amount  to  10  or  more,  reject  10  in  the  index  > 
for  instance,  in  the  second  example  of  })  D  0  converse;  the  logarithm 
of  the  D  's  distance  inside  the  12th  is  11.6754,  which  we  call  1.6754,  by 
rejecting  10  in  the  index.''' 


CHAPTER  X. 


TO  DIEEOT  THE  STTN  OB  MOOK  TO  ANT  ASPECT  TS  MITNDO  (EX- 
CEPT THE  parallels)  by  direct  MOTION. 

When  the  ©  or  ])  are  supposed  to  remain  fixed  in  the 
place  they  were  at  birth,  and  the  planets  1^,  ^2  >  V>  c?>  ?» 
or  5  >  are  moved  on  to  form  the  aspect  according  to  the  re- 
guhur  motion  of  the  heavens,  the  direction  is  called  Direct 
Direction. 

Rule  1 . — As  the  semi-arc  of  the  ©  or  J  is  to  its  distance 
ft-om  a  certain  house,  so  is  the  semi-arc  of  the  planet  directed 
to  the  second  distance  of  that  planet. 

Rule  2. — Add  or  subtract  it  from  the  planet's  apparent  (or 
primary)  distance,  according  as  it  passes  or  falls  short  of  the 
cusp  ;  the  result  is  the  arc  op  direction. 

Example  1. — Direct  the  O  to  c^  h  ^J  direct  direction. 

0*8  semi-arc  57®  53'  log.  (arith.  comp.)  9.5073 :  0's  meridian  distance 
16°  47',  log.  1.0304  : :  semi-arc  of  h  64°  24',  log.  4464 :  aecand  distance 
of  h ,  past  the  M.  C.  18o  40',  log.  9841. 

As  \i  passes  the  cusp  of  the  1 0th,  add  his  meridian  distance  to  form 
the  c^;  thus  meridian  distance  37°  55'  +  18°  40'  =  the  arc  of  0  c^  f^ 
D.  D.  56°  35'.t 

*  These  proportional  logarithms  are  found  in  books  on  Navigation,  &c. ; 
they  are  given  in  Cooper's  Placidus. 

t  Placidus  works  these  directions  sometimes  by  means  of  poles,  &c ;  but 
he  errs  against  his  own  rule  in  Canon  xxxvii,  which  is  the  correct  method. 


GBAMMAB  OF  ASTBOLOGT.    *  433 

N.B.  having  worked  one  direction,  others  may  generally  be  had  from  it 
by  the  proportional  part  of  the  semi-arc  of  the  planet  directed  :-^ 

Thus,  the  arc  of  the  0  <5  h  D-  D-  56©  35'  — half  of  h's  semi-arc 
32»  12'  =  arc  of  O  to  semiquartUe  of  h  D.  D.  24o  23'—  l-6th  of  h  semi- 
arc  10°  44'  =  arc  of  O  ^   h  D.  D.  13°  39'. 

Example  2.-— Find  the  arc  of  ])   D  h  D-  D. 

1.  Semi-arc  of  })  93o  9'  log.  A.  C.  9.7139 :  distance  of  the  ^  from  the 
1st  house,  7<*  2'  log.  1.4081 :  :  semi-arc  of  Saturn  64°  24'  log.  44(54  :  se- 
ctmd  distance  of  Saturn  to  the  10th,  4°  52'  log.  1.5684. 

2.  The  meridian  distance  of  Saturn  37°  55'  — his  second  distance  4°  52' 
=  arc  of  >  D  h  D  D.  33°  3'—  l-3d  of  Saturn's  arc  21°  28'  =  arc  of  ]) 
¥:  Saturn  D.  D.  11°  35'  —  l-6th  of  h  's  arc  10<^  44'  =  arc  of  J»  scmiq. 
Saturn,  D.  D.  0°  51'. 

N.B.  As  this  latter  arc  is  within  one  degree,  it  came  into  operation  in 
the  first  year  of  life ;  and  will  act  all  through  life  to  the  injury  of  the  na- 
tive, it  being  a  radical  position,  by  which  \i  vitiates  the  ]) .  Its  effects 
are  mitigated  by  the  ^  of  h  to  }>  in  zodiac. 


CHAPTER  XI. 


TO  DIRECT    THE    STTN  OB   MOON    TO    MTTNDAKB   PARALLELS 
CONVERSE. 

These  have  been  already  described  in  Chap.  XIII.  Book  I. 
(which  see.) 

Rule  1 . — The  semi-arc  of  the  planet  to  whose  parallel  Sun 
or  })  is  directed  :  its  meridian  distance  : :  ©  or  ])  *s  semi-arc  : 
second  distance  of  ©  or  ])  from  the  meridian. 

Rule  2. — The  difference  between  0  or  }  's  meridian  dis- 
tance and  second  distance  is  the  arc  of  direction  ;  or  if  it 
pass  the  meridian  to  form  the  parallel,  the  sum  must  be  taken. 

Example  1. — Required  the  arc  of  O  to  parallel  h  converse. 

Semi-arc  of  h  64°  24' :  meridian  distance  of  h  37°  55' : :  semi-arc  of  0 
57*  53' :  second  distance  of  0  34°  5'—  0's  meridian  distance  16«  47'  = 
arcof  0par»  h  converse  17o  18'. 

Example  2. — Required  the  arc  of  ^  parallel  <J  converse. 

Semi-arc  of  <J  79°  19':  meridian  distance  of  <J  74°  40'::  semi-arc 
(diurnal)  of  J  86°^  51' :  secrnid  distance  of  3)  Sl^'  46'. 


434  GBAMMiLK  OF  ASTROLOGY. 

As  the  aspect  £dls  above  the  Earth,  the  D's  diurnal  meridian  distance 
(=  I8O0 — her  meridian  distance)  mnst  be  taken. 

The  D  's  diurnal  meridian  distance  93<*  53'  — ^'  her  second  distance  8 1<*  46 
b:  arc  of  >  parallel  S  converse  12o  7'. 


CHAPTER  XII. 


TO   DIRECT    THE    SJJN   OE  MOON  TO  MU^TDAlfE   PABALLEL8  BY 
DIBECT  DIEECTIOK. 

This  is  reversing  the  operation  of  the  converse  parallels. 

Rule  1.  —  Semi-arc  of  Q  or  ) :  its  meridian  distance  : : 
the  planet's  semi-arc :  its  second  distance. 

Rule  2. — ^The  difference  between  the  planet's  meridian  dis- 
tance and  second  distance,  or  if  it  pass  the  meridian  to  form 
the  parallel,  their  «wjw,  will  be  the  aec  of  dxeectioit. 

Exavuple.^Ym^.  the  arc  of  0  parallel  \  D.  D. 

Semi-arc  of  0,  57°  53'  log.  A.  C.  9.5073 :  0's  meridian  distance,  16»  47' 
log.  1.0304: :  the  semi-arc  of  \  64°  24'  log.  .4464  :  Becmd  distance  of 
lj   18«  40' log.  .9841. 

The  meridian  distance  of  \  37o  55'  —  the  second  distance  of  T^  I80  40^ 
=  19*  15'  arc  of  0  paraUel  h  D.  D. 


CHAPTER  XIII. 


to  DIBECT  THE  STTN  OE  MOON  TO  EAPT  PAEALLELS ; ' 
Or  to  ParaUel  Distances  from  the  Meridian  by  Rapt  Motion. 
Tnis  name  of  rapt  is  an  old  term,  meaning  carried  away; 
and  it  signifies  those  parallels  which  are  formed  by  both  the 
significator  (as  G  or  })  are  termed)  and  the  promittor  (as  the 
planets  Ig,  h,  V,  c?,  ?,  and  ^,  are  termed)  being  carried 
away  by  the  motion  of  the  Earth  on  its  axis  from  the  places 
they  were  in  at  birth,  tiU  they  come  to  equal  or  paralld  dis- 
tances from  the  meridian. 


aSAHMAB  OF  ASTBOLOGY.  435 

Bule  1. — Tskfi  half  the  sum  of  the  semi-arc  of  the  ©  or 
j)   4-  tliat  of  the  planet. 

Rule  2. — Take  half  the  difference  between  the  A.  R.  of  the 
O  or  J  and  that  of  the  planet.  i 

Rule  3. — Take  half  the  semi-arc  of  the  body  which  will  be 
applying  towards  or  approadiing  the  meridian  when  the 
parallel  is  formed. 

Rule  4. — Half  the  sum  of  the  semi-arcs :  half  the  semi- 
arc  of  the  body  applying  to  the  meridian  : :  half  the  differ- 
ence of  A.  B. :  half  the  second  distance  of  the  body  applying 
to  the  meridian ;  which  double.  The  apparent  distance  of 
the  body  from  the  meridian  —  the  second  distance  =  aec  of 
niKECTioir. 

Example. — Bring  the  0  to  the  rapt  parallel  of  ^  in  Ada's  nativity. 

Toscmi-arcof    h  64  24,  |ofititf32  12    A.R.  of  h 3U  17 

Add  semi-arc  of  0  57  53  A.R  of  0  256  35 

2)122  17  2)  54  42 

Half       61    8i  p.  log.  (A.C)  ....  9.5311  Half  27  21 

:  Jof  Ti  '8  semi-arc  32  12    7474 

::  Jof  the  diflf.  A.R.  27  21  prop,  log 8183 

:  \  the  second  distance  of  h 14o  24'=1.0968 

^      2 

Second  distance  of  h    ....  28  48 

The  meridian  cGstance  of  \,Z1^  hb*r-8econd distance  of  \i  from  the 
meridian,  28°  48^,  leaves  the  are  of  direction  of  0  rapt  parallel  \ ,  9°  T. 

N.B.  These  rapt  parallels  are  most  powerful  directions,  and 
never  fail  to  produce  important  effects.  This  direction  it  was 
which  caused  the  death  of  the  natiye's  noble  and  talented 
father ;  as  it  will  be  seen,  by  the  rules  for  turning  arcs  of 
direction  into  time,  that  it  came  up  exactly  at  the  period  of 
Lord  Byron's  death>  All  parallels  act  like  conjunctions ; 
good  with  ffood  planets,  and  evil  with  evil  pldnets. 

F  s 


436  GSAMHi.B  01*  ASTBOLOer. 

Exaaiple  3.»Required  the  are  for  the  npt  paralld  of  })  to  <^ .  The 
body  of  ^  if  nearer  the  ascendant  than  that  of  > ;  and  he  therefore  rises 
ilrtt,  and  will  form  a  parallel  distance  to  the  M.  C.  according  to  his  semi- 
arc  (diurnal,  as  he  will  be  above  the  Earth),  with  that  formed  by  the  Moon 
to  the  meridian  under  the  Earth,  according  to  her  semi-arc.  But  as  the  op- 
position of  the  Moon  will  be  at  an  equal  distance  firom  the  10th  or  diurnal 
meridian  as  her  body  is  from  the  4th  or  nocturnal  meridian ;  and  as  the 
rule  requires  the  arcs  used  to  be  both  diurnal  or  both  nocturnal,  we  take 
the  j'  of  D  instead  of  the  ])  herself  to  work  with. 

Then  to  the  semi-arc  (diurnal)  of  ^  ..  100  41    A.R.  i  18  42  +  360    0 

=  378  42 
Add  the  semi-arc  (diurnal)  of  the<f  of  }) , 

whichisher  own  semi-arc,  nocturnal  93    9    A.R.  of  3  's  j*    187  15 

2)193  50  2)191  27 

Half..     95    43 

Half 9eo55'=P.log.  (A.C.)     9.73U 

:  Half  semi-arc  <J 50  20 5534 

::  Half  diff.  A.R 95  43     2743 

:  Half  the  second  distance    49043^ 5588 

X     2  ssB^ 


The  second  dist  i  to  meridian   99  26 


180<>— meridian  dirtanoe  S  74o  40^=primary  distance  of  ^  to  dtMmal 
meridian,  105«  20'— <J  second  distance  99<»  26'=5<»54'arc  of  J  rapt 
parallel  i, 

Exan^le  3.— Find  the  rapt  parallel  of  0  to  2^.  When  >^  sets,  he  wiU 
tgtphf  to  the  nocturnal  meridian,  and  soon  form  a  parallel  distance  with 
the  0  to  the  diurnal  meridian.  The  opposite  place  of  0  must  be  w(^ed 
with  as  if  he  were  in  the  3d  house,  as  the  nocturnal  arcs  are  used. 

To  semi-arc  of  2^  (nocturnal)  104  26  A.R.  of  %         210 

Add  the  semi-arc  of  0's  g      57   53  A.R.  of  <?  0     76 


Half 81    9J  Half. 


GBAMMAB   OF   ASTROLOGY ,  437 

Half  the  sum  of  the  semi-arcs  81®  9J' 9.6541 

:  Half  the  semi-arc  (nocturnal*)  of  2^  52®  13' 5374 

::  Half  diflference  of  the  A.R.  66®  56' 4296 

:  Half  the  second  distance 43°  4'    6211 

^   2  == 

1^'s  second  distance    86  8 

2^'s  meridian  distance,  117^  5't->his  second  distance,  86<'  8'=  arc  of  0 
raptparaUel  >^,30«57'. 


CHAPTER  XIV. 
OP  DiBEcnoirs  to  the  paet  op  poetunb  nr  muitdo. 

The  ©  is  9^  fixed  point,  and  has  no  motion  of  itself.  Bodies 
of  planets  may  be  carried  to  it,  or  form  aspects  with  it,  except 
the  rapt  parallel ;  but  it  cannot  itself  move  onwards,  either  in 
the  zodiac  or  by  conrerse  motion  in  the  world.  The  ©, 
therefore,  has  nothing  to  do  with  the  zodiac,  and  forms  no 
zodiacal  aspects ;  it  is  capable  of  direct  direction  only,  {See 
Book  I.  Chap.  XIV.) 

To  direct  Q,  T)y  or  any  Planet,  to  an  Aspect  of  Q). 

IRule  1 . — Semi-arc  of  ©  :  its  distance  from  any  house  it 
may  be  near  : :  semi-arc  of  the  planet  directed  :  that  planet's 
second  distance  to  the  house  which  is  in  aspect  with  the  house 
to  which  ©  is  measured  from. 

Rule  2. — ^Add  or  subtract  the  second  distance  from  the 
apparent,  according  as  the  planet  passes  or  falls  short  of  the 
house ;  the  sum  or  difference  is  the  abo  op  dibegtioit. 

*  Aa  he  approaches  the  meridian  when  the  aspect  is  formed, 
t  The  nocturnal  meridian  distance  of*  2^. 

P  P  2 


438  OBAMMAB  or  ASTBOLOGT. 

JSrompi^.— Required  the  arc  of  0  to  A  Q  in  Ada's  natiTitj. 

Semi-arc  0  93<>  9^,  log.  A.C.  9.7139  ;  disUnce  of  0  from  4th  houset 
llo  27',  log.  1.1965  ::  semi-arc  of  O  57o  53',  log.  4927  :  0*8  second  dis- 
tance pat^  the  8th  house,  where  he  will  be  four  houses  (a  A  asp.)  from 
0,  70  7'  log.  1.4031  +  0's  distance  to  8th  house,  2l«  48'=arc  of  0  A  0 
280  55'. 

To  direct  any  Planet  to  a  Parallel  o/Q. 

Rule  1. — Semi-arc  ®:  its  meridian  distance  ::  the  planet's 
semi-arc  :  its  second  distance  from  the  meridian. 

Rule  2. — ^Take  from  or  add  this  to  the  planet's  meridian 
distance  for  the  abo  or  dibection. 

Exanyatle, — Bring  0  to  parallel  of  h . 

Semi-arc  of  0,  93o  9',  log.  A.C.  9.7139 :  its  meridian  distance,  llo27', 
log.  1.1965  : :  h  semi-arc,  64o  24',  log.  4464  :  h's  second  meridian  dis- 
tance,* 7«  55',  log.  1.3568. 

The  meridian  distance  of  h  37°  55' — second  distance  of  T^  to  the 
meridian,  7°  55'=arc  of  0  parallel  to  h .  30o  (K. 


CHAPTER   XV. 


OK  TtTBTTING  THE  ABC   OF  DIBECTION  INTO  TIME,  TO  liSABK 
AT  "WHAT  AOE  ITS   EFFECTS  WILL  BE  IVLT. 

This  is  termed  equating  the  arc  of  direction.     It  is  a  m^isure 
of  time,  and  depends  on  the  motion  of  0  in  the  zodiac. 

Rule. — To  the  A.R.  of  ©  at  hirth  add  the  arc  of  direction. 
Find  in  how  many  days  and  hours  after  birth  the  Sun  acquires 
this  A.R.,  and  allow  for  each  day  one  year  of  life,  and  for 
each  two  hours  one  month.  To  find  this  time,  look  in  the 
Ephemeris  for  the  longitude  answering  to  this  A.R.,  and  from 
the  day  and  hour  when  0  reaches  this  longitude  take  the 
day  and  hour  of  birth  ;  the  difierence  is  the  number  of  days 

*  This  distance  of  Ti  from  the  M.G.  added  to  his  meridian  cQstanoe 
will  give  0  ^   h  =45*»  b(/. 


aRAMMAB   or   A3TB0L0GT.  439 

and  hours  after  birth,  which  are  to  be  tnmed  into  years  and 
months,  to  know  the  age  at  which  the  direction  will  operate. 

Example, — Required  the  time  of  life  when  the  direction  of  0  rapt 
parallel  of  Saturn  in  Ada's  nativity  wiU  be  in  operation. 

The  A.R.  of  0  at  birth 256o  35' 

The  arc  of  0  rapt  parallel  Saturn 9     7 

A.R.  of  0  when  the  aspect  is  complete 265    42 

The  longitude  answering  to  A.R.  265°  42'  is  f  26^  4',  and  the  0 
arriyed  at  this  longitude  at  7  o'clock  on  the  evening  of  the  18th  of 
December  1815. 

Then  from  Dec.  1815    18  days,  7  hours 

Take  the  day  and  hour  of  birth 10  days,  1  hour 

There  remain 8  days,  6  hours 

which,  at  the  rate  of  1  year  for  1  day,  and  1  month  for  2  hours,  is  the  age 
of  8  years  and  3  months,  which  was  March  1824.  Now,  on  the  19th  of 
April  1824,  Lord  Byron  (the  native's  father)  died,  which  shews  the  time 
of  birth  to  be  correctly  noted,  as  primary  directions  can  rarely  be  brought 
up  to  nearer  than  a  month  of  the  time  of  the  event,  especially  those  of  h  • 


CHAPTER  XVI. 

OF  SECONSABY  DIBEOTIONS. 

All  die  directions  we  have  hitherto  considered  are  termed 
FBiMABT  DiBBOTiOKB;  and  they  are  found  to  operate  for 
several  weeks,  amd  Bometimes  for  many  months ;  especially 
the  mutual  aspects  of  0  uid  > ,  which,  owing  to  their  apparent 
magnitude,  generally  come  into  operation,  and  remain  so  for 
6  or  8  weeks,  at  least,  before  and  after  the  time  the  direction 
is  perfect.  The  directions  of  ^  are  generally  slow  and 
tedious,  bringing  a  continuation  of  sickness  or  trouble  to  the 
nativet,  according  as  they  may  act.  Those  of  Mars  are  gener- 
ally soon  over,  but  sharp  and  sudden  in  their  effects.  Parallels 
in  the  zodiac  sometimes  continue  a  great  length  of  time  in 


440  aEAMMAB  07  ASTBOLOaY. 

operation ;  as,  when  they  fall  near  the  tropics,  the  Q  or  ) 
sometimes  He  several  days  nearly  in  the  same  dedination ;  and 
the  effect  will  he  to  cause  a  certain  chain  of  events  to  befall 
the  native,  at  times,  for  many  years  together. 

Sbcokbaby  Dibectioks  are  merely  the  aspects  formed  by 
the  5  after  birth,  and  they  are  far  less  powerful  than  primary 
directions ;  and  if  these  are  opposed  to  them  in  nature  at  the 
time,  they  have  little  or  no  effect.  But  if  the  primary  and 
secondary  directions  agree  in  nature  (for  instance,  if  the  0 
were  in  cJ  or  parallel,  &c.  of  Tj  in  the  primary  and  the  D 
in  parallel  of  ©'s  declination,  or  in  ill  aspect  to  (J^  or  Ij ,  &c. 
b  the  secondary  direction  the  event  is  generally  shown  ^hen 
the  influence  is  most  powerful ;  viz.,  when  the  secondary  di- 
rection is  complete.  Secondary  directions  endure  only  a 
week  or  two. 

To  calculate  Secondary  Directions. 

Rule, — Observe  the  day  and  hour  after  birth  when  >  forms 
any  aspect  either  with  the  ascendant  or  M.C.  or  her  own  place 
at  birth,  or  those  of  ©  or  any  planet,  and  take  the  day  and 
hour  of  birth  from  it ;  the  difference  will  be  the  arc  of  di- 
rection. This  arc  is  to  be  turned  into  time,  at  the  rate  of  1 
year  for  1  day,  and  1  month  for  2  hours.  The  Moon  also 
forms  aspects  in  the  heavens  after  birth,  independent  of  the 
places  in  the  figure  of  birth ;  and  these  also  must  be  noted, 
and  the  arc  of  direction  found  in  the  same  manner. 

Example, — lu  Ada's  nativity  the  <[  comes  to  the  paraUel  dedinatioii  of 
0  at  8h.  29m.  p.m.  on  the  18th  of  December,  1815.  And  from  her 
birth  that  measures  8  days  7  hours  and  29  minutes,  equal  to  8  years  3 
months  and  23  days,  which  is  the  2d  of  April  1824,  within  a  fortnight  of 
the  time  of  the  death  of  Lord  Byron.  At  9h.  42m.  p.m.,  which  measures 
to  19th  of  April,  1824,  the  day  of  the  father's  de^th,  she  had  23»  17'  de- 
clination ;  and  on  that  very  day  she  had  also  23<^  17'  dedination  at  noon ! 


GRAIOLIB  OP  ASTSOLOGY. 


441 


CHAPTER  XVII. 

OP  EBVOLTTTIONS,  LUITATIONS,  TEANSITS,  &C. 

Thb  Revolution  of  the  Sun  is  his  return  to  his  place  at 
birth.  This  may  readily  be  estimated  to  within  a  trifle,  and 
the  figure  erected  with  the  same  A.R.  of  M.C.  as  at  birth, 
and  the  places  of  the  planets  marked  in  ;  and  according  as 
the  0,  ),  Ascendant,  and  M.C,  are  well  aspected  by  the 
planets  at  the  time,  will  the  native  be  influenced  during  the 
following  year.  If  the  revolution  accords  with  the  directions 
operating,  it  gives  them  greater  power,  as  it  is  an  additional 
influence ;  if,  however,  there  be  no  close  aspects  at  the  revo- 
lution, it  has  little  effect  either  way. 

Example. — ^In  Ada's  nativity  0  returned  to  the  place  he  was  in  at  her 
birth  exactly  at  llh.  30m.  a.m.  on  the  lOth  of  December,  1823;  and 
here  follow  the  places  of  the  planets  at  that  revolution : — 


Planet 

¥ 

h 

n 

6 

© 

? 

9 

> 

Long. 

10  19 

18  20 

25 

8  h 

24  '4 

17  40 

t 

o    / 

16   0 

U  12 

Dec. 

23  25 

o    / 

15   0 

23   5 

4  18 

O     1 

22  54 

9  80 

23  35 

O    / 

2  15 

Observe,  that  we  find  %  in  parallel  with  0 ;  but  his  benefic  nature  is 
vitiated  by  bdng  in  (f  to  ^  ;  and  both  $  and  )!^  having  the  decUnation 
of  0,  do  much  afflict  that  luminary,  and  in  a  child's  natus  tend  to  injure 
the  father.*  The  Moon  is  separating  from  a  A  of  1/.,  and  applying  to  a 
dose  a  of  0  in  the  radix  or  figure  of  birth ;  she  is  in  O  also  to  the 
place  of  ][j|  at  birth :  and  having  returned  to  her  ovm  declination,  she  is 
rendered  more  able  to  do  evil ;  as  the  Moon  upon  her  own  place  at  any 
time  has  more  power  for  good  or  evil,  as  she  may  be  aspected,  than  in  any 
other  situation.    The  0  also  is  in  a  to  ^ ,  who  is  more  evil  by  being  in 

*  In  the  secondary  motion  the  0  had  exactly  gained  this  evil  declina- 
tion of  Herschel,  23»  25'. 


442  OBAinCAB  OF  astbology. 

sesqniqiuidrtte  aspect  to  the  radical  place  of  Satam :  and,  lastly,  >  is 
farther  afflicted  hy  being  in  dose  a  to  $ .  All  these  very  evU.  positions, 
and  some  others  which  I  have  omitted  to  notice,  denoted  much  tronble  to 
the  native  that  year ;  accordingly,  in  four  months  after  she  lost  her  father. 
When  0  returned  to  his  place  December  1834,  the  D  was  on  her  radical 
place,  and  in  ^  to  2^  ;  ^  and  ^  in  paralle],  the  hitter  being  in  aspect 
to  Jf .    The  lady  married  during  the  year. 

Lttwations. — ^The  new  or  full  Moon  immediately  preceding 
any  important  event  will  generally  shew,  by  the  positions  of 
the  luminaries  as  regards  the  planet's  places  in  the  radix  and 
at  the  revolution,  the  nature  of  the  events  about  to  follow. 

Exanqtle. — ^The  full  Moon  preceding  Lord  Byron's  death  was  at  3h.  47m- 
p.M  on  the  13th  of  April,  1824 ;  and  we  find  that  0  was  in  23|®  of  T ,  the 
radical  place  of  ^ ,  the  D  being,  of  course,  in  23J**  of  a,  the  ^  to  ^  at 
birth ;  ^  and  $  had  the  same  declination  Z^  ,  which  is  dose  on  that  of 
})  at  birth,  and  at  the  last  revolution.  The  Moon's  declination  was  13®  45', 
close  to  that  of  Tj  at  the  revolution ;  0  and  5  9<»,  that  of  <?  at  birth.  On 
the  26th  June,  1835,  a  new  Moon  fell  on  the  cusp  of  the  4th  house  in  ^ 
to  S » ^ho  was  in  A  to  the  M.C. ;  and  0  and  1^  were  in  parallel  on  the 
declination  of  0  at  burth. 

Teansits. — ^These  are  the  passing  of  any  planet  over  any 
important  part  of  the  radical  figure,  or  the  revolutional  figure, 
such  as  the  places  of  the  ©,  J,  Ascendant,  M.C,  &c. 
Unless  it  be  within  two  or  three  weeks  of  the  birthday,  tran- 
sits over  the  radical  places  have  much  less  effect ;  but  if  near 
the  birth-day,  they  are  very  important ;  in  subordination,  not- 
withstanding, to  the  directions  at  work.  On  the  19th  of 
May,  1835,  there  was  a  transit  of  11  over  the  place  of  0, 
(J ,  in  A  to  ])  and  J^,  and  ?  in  (5  (J  at  birth.  I  have  no 
doubt  the  native  was  about  that  time  engaged  to  be  married. 
The  transits  of  ^2  over  the  (5  or  ^f  of  the  ©  are  ever  very 
powerful,  especially  if  he  be  stationary. 

On  the  day  Lord  Byron  died,  ])  having  just  gone  over  the 
D  of  the  place  of  ^  and  sesquiquadrate  of  ^  at  the  revo- 
lution, is  found  at  noon  of  the  fatal  day  in  Vf  10*  4',  exactly 


QRA.MMJLR  OE  ASTBOI.OGT.  443 

the  place  of  ^  at  the  revolation ;  and  in  parallel  to  $  and 
^  at  that  time,  and  her  own  declination  in  the  secondary  di- 
rection 23*  17'. 

Iirc^BESSES. — ^The  places  ©,  ),  M.C.,  and  Asc,  have  ar- 
rived at  by  directional  motion  in  the  zodiac  are  also  worthy 
of  notice  ;  as  transits  over  and  in  aspect  to  them  have  impor- 
tant effects.  For  example,  we  find  that  Q  has  arrived  at  f 
2&*  20'  by  his  motion  in  the  zodiac  at  the  time  this  native  lost 
her  father ;  as  may  be  seen  by  bringing  0  to  that  point  by 
obUqne  ascension  in  his  pole,  as  directed  in  Chap.  II.  Book  II. 
Now,  on  the  17t^  of  April,  1824,  ])  passed  that  point  in  the 
zodiac,  being  at  the  time  in  D  to  (^  ;  and  on  the  day  when 
the  native's  father  died  the  evil  (J  is  found  to  transit  the  Q 
of  that  very  point,  being  in  irp  26°  IC  R. :  his  being  retro- 
grade added  to  his  evil  nature.  The  ©  had  arrived  at  the 
8th  degree  of  Vf  by  direction  at  the  age  of  19  years  7  months 
in  declination  23"  13'.  And  on  the  7th  of  July,  1835,  ^  was 
iu  that  exact  declination  when  the  native  was  married  ! 

Thus,  by  the  primary  direction  of  ©  rapt  parallel  \ , 
which  measures  exactly  to  the  time  of  the  father's  death  ;  by 
the  evil  secondary  direction  of  )  parallel  ©  ;  by  an  evil  re- 
volution, in  which  ©  was  in  D  to  <? ,  and  ])  in  D  to  ©,  ^  > 
and  (^,  with  other  ill  testimonies  ;  by  a  very  fatal  lunation, 
the  full  moon  on  the  13th  April,  1824,  and  by  violent  in- 
gresses  over  the  Q  of  ©'s  place  in  the  zodiac  by  direction, 
and  transits  of  ])  over  the  body  of  I^  at  the  revolution,  her 
exact  declination  in  the  secondary  direction,  and  ^  to  that  of 
O  at  birth,  as  well  as  the  numerous  similar  cases  in  the  in- 
stance of  marriage,  do  we  find  an  abundant  harvest  of  evi- 
dence in  this  nativity  of  the  wonderful  harmony  and  power 
of  planetary  influence.  The  student  may  rely,  that,  when  he 
meets  with  persons  who  deny  its  existence,  they  have  never 
given  it  a  fair  examination,  and,  in  all  probability,  no  exami- 


444  GBAMMAB  OF  ASTBOLOOY, 

nation  whaterer ;  yet  "kotste  bhodxd  cokdskit  who  bo  kot 

UmOSBSTAKD  !'' 

Pboobesses. — ^These  are  the  positions  the  })  forms  in  her 
prepress,  hy  allowing  one  s3podical  lunation  for  one  year  of 
the  native's  life :  by  proportioning  the  ratio  of  motion  in  any 
subsequent  lunation  to  that  at  the  birth>  we  aniye  at  the  place 
of  the  ]) .  Thus  we  find  that  19  lunations  after^  which  was 
at  W  5T  A.M.  24th  June  1817,  the  ©  A  1/  and  J  <5  ? 
of  this  radix  took  place.  The  mode  of  working  this  progres- 
sive motion  of  })  b  this  : — 

The  Moon's  place  at  birth^  and  motion  during  the  1st  month, 
influence  the  1st  year  of  life ;  and  when  she  arrives  at  the 
same  distance  in  longitude  from  the  Sun  as  at  births  which  is 
at  the  end  of  a  synodical  month,  she  begins  to  influence  the 
next  year.  And  so  on  the  })  in  her  progress  always  influ- 
ences a  year  by  a  month's  motion.  To  find  the  position  of 
the  ])  at  any  period  of  life,  observe  that  she  finishes  12  lu- 
nations, and  enters  the  13th,  just  11  days  less  than  one  year 
after  birth ;  and  that  24  lunations  are  finished  in  22  days  less 
than  2  years  after  birth  ;  and  3^  lunations  (answering  to  the 
age  of  36  years)  in  33  days  less  than  3  years,  &c. 

The  ])  at  Ada's  birth  was  3  signs  17°  59'  =  107*  59'  from 
the  Sun.  And  I  find  her  at  the  same  distance  on  the  23d  June, 
1817,  at  3  :  46  p.m.  :  this,  therefore,  completes  the  19th  luna* 
tion.  The  20th  lunation  is  complete  22d  July,  8:18  p.m.  The 
time  between  these  is  exactly  700.53  hours.  I  find  the  ])  cf 
$  at  2  :  30  p.m.  on  the  lOth  July,  being  just  406.7  hours  after 
the  completion  of  the  19th  progress.  Then  I  say,  700.53  : 
365."25  : :  406."  7  :  2T2,  which  reach  from  the  birthday  1834  to 
the  10th  July  1835,  and  on  the  7th  of  that  month  the  native 
was  married.  It  is  worthy  of  observation,  that  on  the  day  of 
marriage  the  ])  ingressed  upon  the  place  of  %  in  the  pro* 
gress,  ?  also  having  the  decimation  of  both  ©  and  J . 


GBAMMAB  GE  ASTBOLOaX. 


445 


N.B.  To  find  the  hour  of  the  i  forming  the  same  aspect 
with  0  as  at  birth,  observe  the  rule  given  for  secondary 
directions. 

Planefs  Places  when  Lord  Byron  died. 


Planet 

¥ 

h 

n 

^ 

0 

? 

$ 

D 

Long. 

o    / 

15  46 

0 
23  35 

SB 
5  f 9 

O    / 

26  10 

T 

O     / 

29  21 

T 
2  37 

7  2'0 

Vf 
o   '  / 

10   4 

Dec 

o    / 

22  55 

0     / 

16  52 

23  30 

o    / 

3  40 

11  15 

0  24 

14  28 

o    / 

23  17 

CHAPTER  XVIII. 

TO  EBCTITT  THE  ESTIMATED  TIME  OP  BIBTH  TO  EDTD    THE 
TBUE   TIME. 

Unless  the  time  of  a  child's  birth  be  accurately  noted  by  an 
astrologer,  or  for  astrological  purposes,  it  is  very  likely  to  be 
incorrect ;  and  as  an  error  of  half  a  minute  may  throw  a 
direction  out  six  weeks,  and  an  error  of  two  minutes  cause  the 
direction  to  be  wrong  by  six  months,  it  becomes  important  to 
know  how  to  learn  the  true  time  of  birth,  when  we  have  only 
what  may  be  termed  the  estimate  time. 

To  eflFect  this  purpose,  erect  the  figure  of  the  heavens  for 
the  estimate  time,  and  complete  the  speculum  of  the  planet's 
places  for  that  time ;  then,  if  the  birth  be  that  of  a  person 
who  has  lived  a  few  years,  learn  some  two  or  three  important 
events  which  have  happened  to  the  native,  and  the  periods  at 
which  they  occurred,  and  then  calculate  the  solar  arc  for  each 
of  those  periods. 

To  calculate  the  Solar  Arc. 
Rule, — ^Tum  the  age  at  which  any  event  happened  into 


446  0SAHMAB  01>  ASTBOIiO&T. 

days  and  hours  after  birth^  by  allowing  a  day  for  a  year,  and 
two  hours  for  a  month  ;  add  this  number  of  days  and  hours 
to  the  time  of  birth,  and  look  in  the  Ephemeris  for  the  longi- 
tude the  Sun  will  have  arrired  at  at  that  period  ;  then  find 
the  A.R.  corresponding  to  that  longitude,  and  subtract  the 
O  A.R.  Arom  it :  the  difference  will  be  the  solar  arc  Teqmred. 

Example. — In  the  nativity  of  Ada  we  have  the  estimate 
time  as  given  by  Lord  Byron  (see  Chap.  VIII.  Book  I.),  whidi 
is  one  hour,  p.m.,  10th  of  Dec.  1815 ;  for  which,  having 
erected  a  figure  of  the  heavens,  and  found  the  planet's  places, 
&c.,  we  will  proceed  to  rectify,  to  find  the  true  moment  of  birth. 

The  death  of  the  native's  father  took  place  on  the  19th  of 
April  1824,  at  which  time  the  native  was  8  years  4  months 
and  9  days  old.  Call  this  8  years  4  months,  which  will  be 
equal  to  8  days  8  hours  of  time  after  birth. 

day*    houa 

Time  of  birth  December  1815,  at  10    1 
Add  the  time  of  tbje  father's  death.    8    8 

Time  of  the  accident   18    9 

The  O's  longitude  at  9  hours  p.m.  on  the  18th  of  Dec.  1815^  was  / 
260  9',  the  A.R.  of  which  is  265«  48'— 0  A.R.  at  birth,  256o  35'=«fcr 
arc  for  the  time  of  her  father's  death,  9<»  13'. 

Having  found  the  solar  arc,  see  if  any  direction  fall  near, 
the  nature  of  which  corresponds  with  the  nature  of  the  acci- 
dent, according  to  the  rules  "To  judge  of  the  Effects  of 
Directions  "  (Chap.  XI.  Book  I.) ;  and  then,  if  it  be  a  direction 
to  any  of  the  angles  or  a  rapt  parallel,  you  have  only  to  find 
the  difference  between  the  solar  arc  and  the  abo  oi*  diksc- 
Txoir,  to  know  the  error  of  the  estimate  time  of  birth. 

Evan^le.-Solar  arc  for  the  father's  death 9«  13' 

The  arc  for  0  rapt  par.  h 9     7 

Error  in  minutes  of  a  degree 0     6 


eSAMMAB  OIP  ASTBOLOeX.  447 

Then,  if  "we  take  off  6^  from  the  A.R  of  M.C.,  it  will  become 
273^  16';  and  the  true  time  of  birth  is  shewn  to  have  been 
24  seconds  earlier  than  the  given  time. 

This  error,  being  so  trivial,  will  cause  only  about  a  month 
error  in  the  predictions  made  from  directions  to  the  angles ; 
and  it  will  have  no  sensible  effect  on  the  other  directions,  and 
none  at  all  on  those  made  to  0  or  j)  in  the  zodiac. 

If,  however,  you  would  be  correct,  add  6'  to  the  arc  of 
direction  for  each  rapt  parallel  and  for  each  aspect  to  the  as- 
cendant or  M.C.  The  directions  to  the  parallel's  converse 
and  direct  should  be  worked  over  again,  as  they  may  require 
a  correction  equal  to  two  months  in  the  native's  life. 

Should  no  direction  to  an  angle  or  rapt  parallel  apply  nearly 
(for  it  is  rare  that  births,  if  noted  at  all,  are  not  correct  within 
5  minutes),  you  must  see  whether  any  parallel  or  other  mun- 
dane aspect  applies  to  the  accident;  and  if  you  find  it  does, 
but  that  the  error  exceeds  10'  of  a  degree  (or,  if  you  choose 
to  be  very  correct,  if-  there  be  an  error  of  above  2  or  3  minutes 
of  a  degree),  apply  the  foUovriug 

Rule  to  find  the  True  Time  of  Birth, 

Rule  1 . — Reduce  the  meridian  distance  of  0  or  ]) ,  which- 
ever you  direct  to,  into  minutes,  an4  call  it  the  first  position ; 
then  add  to  that  meridian  distance  one  degree,  reducing  .that 
also 'to  minutes,  and  call  it  the  second  position ;  then  opposite 
the  second  position  place  the  error  of  the  arc  of  direction, 
multiply  them  together,  and  call  the  amount  A.  Work  the 
same  direction  with  the  altered  meridian  distance  (takiug  care 
to  correct  by  one  degree  the  meridian  distance  of  the  planet 
employed  also)  ;  find  the  error  of  that  arc  of  direction,  and 
place  it  opposite  the  first  position.  Multiply  these  together, 
and  caU  the  amount  B. 

Rule  2. — If  both  errors  be  greater  or  less  than  the  solar 


448  QBAIOCAB  OF  ASTBOLOOr. 

are,  find  the  e^erenee  between  the  errors,  and  make  it  a 
divisor ;  find  also  the  difference  between  A  and  B,  and  make 
it  a  dividend :  the  quotient  will  be  the  true  meridian  duftanee 
of  O  or  ])  at  the  moment  of  birth,  the  difference  between 
which  and  the  amount  of  the  meridian  distance,  which  was 
made  the  first  position,  is  the  error  of  the  A.B.  of  M .C.  at 
the  estimate  time  of  birth. 

Kule  3. — ^Bnt  if  one  error  be  greater  and  the  other  legs 
than  the  solar  arc,  take  the  sum  of  the  errors  for  a  divisor, 
and  the  sum  of  A  and  B  fbr  the  dividend ;  and  the  quotient 
is  the  true  meridian  distance  as  above.  - 

Observe, — When  you  have  gained  the  true  meridian  dis- 
tance of  O  or  ])  by  this  operation,  and  found  how  much 
yoa  have  to  add  to  or  diminish  the  M.C.  to  ascertain  the 
true  A.B.  of  M.C,  turn  that  correction  into  time,  and  add  it 
to  or  deduct  it  from  the  estimate  time  of  birth,  and  you  will 
hare  the  true  time  of  birth.  And  observe  also,  that  all  the 
directions  you  may  have  worked  to  the  angles,  including  rapt 
parallels,  must  be  corrected  by  that  amount.* 

Ejcan^le, — Snppose  the  estimate  A.R.  of  M.C.  273"  22^,  meridian  dis- 
tance of  J>  860  7'^  meridian  distance  of  9  63^  b\  and  that  I  find  the  arc 
of  }>  to  parallel  $  D.D.  to  be  22o  22^,  while  the  event  which  I  belieye  it 
prodnoed  gives  a  eolar  arc  of  22o  38',  the  first  error  is  16'  too  smalL 

Add  1®  to  the  first  position,  and  the  teeond  error  will  become  (as  found 
by  working  the  direction)  2o  20'  or  140'  too  small. 

Ist  Position  86°  7'  or  6167  x  2d  error  140  B  =  723380 

2d  Position  87  7  or  5227  x  1st  error  16  A  =   83632 


124....)639748 
639748' 
Here  _.  6159'  or  85o  59',  the  true  meridian   distance  of  ) ; 

which  differs  8'  from  that  of  the  estimate  time,  and  only  2'  fiom  that  of 
the  time  as  rectified  by  Q  rapt  parallel  li .    This  latter  time  is,  doubtless, 

*  The  other  directions  must  be  worked  over  agaidfmd  the  poles  of  0 
and  D  and  the  meridian  distances  corrected. 


6BAJCHAB  or  ASTBOLOOY.  449 

fhetraetimeofbirth,a8itgiye8ii8the  D  par.  ?  D.D.  12ih  May,1836, 
at  which  tune  the  natiye  had  a  son  and  heur,  which  this  inflnence  would 
bring  about.  / 

Observe. — ^The  best  directions  to  rectify  the  estimated  time 
of  birth  by  are  those  of  (^>  as  the  effects  do  in  general  an- 
swer very  closely  to  the  time  of  the  direction.  Whereas  in 
directions  to  Saturn  the  event  may  come  on  slowly,  and  the 
direction  may  measure  some  minutes  more  or  less  than  the 
solar  arc.  And  I  advise  to  correct  by  accidents  to  the  person, 
if  they  can  be  known ;  such  as  serious  falls  or  hurts,  sudden 
attacks  of  disease,  &c.  The  measles,  scarlatina,  or  small-pox, 
are  generally  caused  by  ^ ,  but  sometimes  by  Q,  especially 
if  he  be  aspected  hj  ($.  It  is  generally  found,  that  if  Q 
or  ^  come  to  semi-quartile  or  sesquiquadrate  of  the  ascend- 
ant in  the  early  part  of  life,  such  complaints  fall  out  at  that 
time.  The  death  of  the  native's  parents,  if  it  have  occurred, 
is  also  a  safe  accident  to  rectify  by,  as  it  generally  happens 
upon  some  powerful  directions.  But  I  recommend  to  take  at 
least  two,  and,  if  you  can,  three  events,  or  "accidents,"  as 
they  are  termed  by  astrologers,  to  rectify  the  given  time  of 
the  nativity  by.  And  bear  in  mind,  that  if  you  do  not  at 
length  get  the  true  time  of  birth  to  within  half  a  minute,  you 
cannot  possibly  be  correct  in  your  predictions  of  the  time  at 
which  many  events  will  happen  to  the  native  in  the  course  of 
his  existence* 


450  OBAJOIAB  or   ASTBOLOOT. 


CHAPTER  XIX. 

A   JUDGMENT  FOB  MAJBtBIAGB  IN  THE  NATITITT   OF 
LOBD  BTBON's  DATJGHTEB. 

It  may  serve  as  a  useful  praxis  for  the  young  student,  if  we 

examine  the  directions  in  this  lady's  nativity  which  promise 

marriage.     They  are  as  follow  : — 

^  par.  2^  D.D  20°  45' 

}>  par.  2^  Con.  21   48  -v 

M.C.*0....    21   54SM.C.  *0    210  54' 

>  par.  ?  D.D.  22  38  )  A.R.  of  0  256   35  . 

}>  par.  ?  Con.  23  35  

278  29  A.R  of  vf  7o  47',  at  which  0 
arrives  19**  18**  after  hirth,  which  will 
be  at  the  age  of  19  years  9  months. 

Remarks. — The  above  train  of  directions  will  be  in  opera- 
tion from  the  age  of  18  and  6  months  until  that  of  about  21 
years,  during  which  the  native  will  be  fortunate,  and  receive 
o£fers  of  marriage  ;  and  tiie  most  powerful  direction,  being 
M.C.  •)(-  0,  will  be  the  means  of  eifecting  that  circumstance.* 

Rule  to  calculate  the  Time  })  /arms  the  Aspects. 

Rule  I. — Take  the  amount  of  the  ])'s  motion  in  24  hoaia, 
from  which  subtract  the  amount  of  the  planet's  motion  (bnt 
if  the  planet  be  retrograde,  add  them),  and  the  difference  or 
sum  is  the  })  's  acceleration. 

Rule  2. — Then  find  how  far  the  ])  was  from  the  aspect  at 
the  noon  previous  to  her  forming  it ;  and  say.  If  the  })  's 
acceleration  give  24  hours,  what  will  tiie  })  's  distance  from 
the  aspect  give  ?  The  answer  is  the  time  after  the  noon  pre- 
vious, when  the  aspect  will  be  formed. 

*  I  leave  this  prediction  as  it  stood  in  the  first  edition,  a  year  and  a 
half  before  the  event. 


OBAMMAB  OF  ASTBOLOGT.  451 

Exanyfle.—Reqmied  the  time  >  forms  ^  with  2^  on  29th  of  Decem- 
ber, 1815  ? 

}>  's  place  at  noon,  80th  Dec yr  6°  38't  2^  . .  Tn.5°  35' 

}) '8  place  at  noon,  29th  Dec /23  58..  2^..  m5  26 


J)  's  motion  in  the  24  hours 12  40  2(.  's  motion  9 

1^'s  during  the  same  24  hours  9 


As  D  's  acceleration    12©  31' 8.8422 

2^'s  ^  at  noon 29th  Vf  5«26'^ to 24     0 8751 

J>  's  place  ditto 


tn  Vf  D"  2^'  -v 

..  ^23  58  ( 

rs^ll  28  ) 


}>'8  distance  from  2^*8^  11   2S  J soil   28 1.1958 


.9131 


To  time  of  ^  being  formed  0  21  59 

Add  the  day    29    0    0 


29  21  59 
From  this  take  the  time  of  birth 10     1     7 


Remains  time  after  birth  of  })  ^  2^    19  20  52 

The  ])  came  to  •)(•  of  the  radical  place  of  ?  on  the  1st  of 
Jaly,  1835,  in  the  nativity  of  the  Countess  of  Lovelace,  and 
the  lady's  marriage  took  place  on  the  7th  of  that  month. 
This  is  the  calculation  : — 

Motion  of  the  })  in  longitude,  from  the  29th  to  the  30th  of  December, 
1815  =  120  40' ;  the  *  9  fells  in  1»  32'  vp :  the  long.  >  29th  Dec.  23« 
58'  / ,  which  is  distant  7°  34'.    Then  12o  40' ;  24h.: :  7°  34' :  14h.  20m. 

This  is  then 29  14  20 

— time  of  birth 10    1    0 


19  13  20  =  19  years  6  months  20  days;  which, 
added  to  the  10th  Dec  1815,  brings  us  to  Ist  July  1835  ;  being  a  proof 
of  the  influence  of  Secondary  Directions.  The  M.C.  ^  0  was  the  primary 
acting  cause. 

I  shall  here  give  a  few  directions  in  this  fair  lady's  nativity, 
for  the  student  to  practise  in ;  and  I  advise  him  to  bring  each 
up  for  his  own  satisfaction. 

t  To  make  this  subtraction,  borrow  30o,  and  then  from  36o  38'  take 
23<»  58'.  G  G 


452  QEAMHAB  OF  ASTBOLOGY. 


Di&sonoHs  IK  THB  Nativitx  of  Loed  Bteo3(*s  Daixohtsb. 

o    ,  Remarks, 

J  d    d*    cony.  1  34^      These  came  up  in  early  infancy, 
Abc.  a  0  2  37  >and  would  cause  several  slight  ill- 

Asc.  S.S.Q.  ]y[   2  5lJne88es. 

Asc.  (j  ($  4  45        This  measures  to  4  years  and  3 

months;    and  from  that  age  to  4 
years  and  6   months   rendered  the 
native  subject  to  the  measles^  scarlet 
fever,  smalUpoz,  &c.     I  think  it  pro- 
bable that  the  native  may  have  taken 
the  latter  disease. 
Asc.  S.  D  fj       5  49 1      These  measure  to  the  age  of  5i 
D  rapt  par.  ($       6     0  J  years,  at  which  time  she  may  have 
suffered  illness.      But    the    native's 
mother  is  denoted  by    ]),  and  no 
doubt  she  had  much  trouble  under 
these  aspects ;  for,  in  the  nativity  of 
children,  the  influence  of  directions, 
which*  do  not  affect  the  health,  falls  on 
^e  parents  or  guardians,  family,  &c. 
0  D   *2  conv.    7    21      Hiese  came  into  operation  at  six 
Asc.  (5   >        .    7     8  J  years  old,  when  I  have  no  doubt  the 
native  suffered  in  her  health  seriously. 
The  influence  lasted  great  part  of  the 
7th  year.    And  the  family  (partica- 
krly  the  father,  who  is  always  sig- 
nified by  the  Sun)  were  afflicted  by 
domestic  disputes,  &c.  &c.* 
0  rapt  par.  f?    ^  13        This  caused  the  death  of  the  na- 

*  I  have  since  learned  that  about  this  age  she  had  a  tendency  of  blood 
to  the  head,  and  was  seriously  ill  thereby. 


GBAlfMAB  OF  ASTBOLOOT.  453 

tire's  father,  at  8  years  and  4  months 
of  her  age. 
O  ^  1/  D.D.    9  21 1      I  judge  that  these  caused  the  na- 
Q  d  ^  conv.    9  32  J  tire  benefit  by  her  father's  will  being 

in  her  favour. 
0  ^  ?  D.D.  11  14  "I      These  are  favourable  to  the  family 
J  par.  (f  zod.  1 1  41  J  afibirs ;  but  I  think  the  latter,  in  her 
11th  year,   caused  affliction  to  the 
mother  of  the  native. 
Asc.  S.S.Q.  O  12  161      These,  in  the  12th  year,  I  think, 
Asc.    ^   %  .     12  45  J  caused   pecuniary  losses  and  vexa- 
tions ;  not  very  material :   the  worst 
at  near  12  years  old ;  also  ill  health. 
Asc.  D  ^  zod.  14     61      At  about  12  years  and  9  months 
y  n  h  zod.    14  48 /appear  to  have  brought  illness,   or 
some  blow  or  bruise :  and  also  much 
trouble  in  the  family,  with  the  death 
of  some  relation,  when  about  13  years 
old,  or  at  13  and  2  months. 
Asc.  <f    ?  14  44  1      And  all  the  early  part  of  the   14th 

O  d  S  conv.  14  48  J  year  the  native  appears  to.  have  suf- 
feredinher  health  by  theeflfect  of  these 
directions,  which  cause  weaknesses 
incident  to  young  females,  coughs,  &c. 
Q  ^  %  zod.  15  36  But  this  good  direction,  at  about 
14,  did  greatiy  improve  the  native's 
health  and  spirits. 
Asc.  -)(-  ^  16  33        And  at  15  years  of  age  she  became 

very  grave,  studious,  and  thoughtful 
in  her  demeanour,  and  was  benefitted 
by  elderly  friends,    or    received    a 
legacy,  &c. 
O  par.  T2  conv.  17  29        But  by  this  ill  aspect,  at  15  and  6 


454 


6BAMHAB  OF  iLSTBOLOGT. 


months,  and  for  a  few  weeks  aflter, 
especially  about  July  1831^  the  na- 
tive appears  to  have  affliction.  I 
think  she  may  have  lost  a  relation  by 
death  ;  and  her  own  health  was  not 
*by  any  means  good. 
0  p.  f?  D.D.  19  28^  These  three  very  evil  directions 
O  D  ])  zod.  19  22  >came  up  about  the  end  of  May  1833 ; 
^  rapt  par.  $  19  45  J  but  they  remained  in  operation  for 
some  time  during  the  spring  and 
summer  of  1833.  Indeed,  about 
April  they  appear  to  have  brought 
trouble,  as  }  came  to  the  parallel  of 
T?  in  the  second  motion  at  that 
time ;  and  I  fear  that  the  native  had 
cotmderable  illness  and  vexation.  She 
was  subject  to  some  complaint  in  the 
eyes,  probably  from  taking  cold ; 
and  to  much  trouble  to  a  nearjriend, 
probably  the  death  of  such  an  one. 

The  train  following  have  been  al- 
ready spoken  of  as  likely  to  bring 
about  the   native's    marriage;    and 
therefore  I  shadl  name  no  others  but 
0  rapt  par.   ?  27  35^  these,  which  I  leave  the  student  to 
O  rapt  par.  ])  27  35  I  equate.     They  will  have  a  powerful 
O  rapt  par.  (J  27  56  [effect,    and,  indeed,  are  dangerous ; 
Asc.   ^9         29  loJ  yet  the  aspect  of    ?    to  the  hyleg 
gives  hopes,  as  $  is  strong  by  being 
in  c5  7/ .     These  directions  will  affect 
the  native's  husband. 


O  A  ^  conv.  26  20 


GKAMMAS  or   ASTBOLOaY.  4o5 

A  Glossaet  op  Asteologioal  Teems  applicable  to 
Nativities. 

Appliction. — Any  planet  being  ill  aspected,  by  another,  or 
being  in  an  unfortunate  situation,  is  said  to  be  afflicted. 

AiBT  Signs. — n,  ^,  and  s::j. 

Amblent. — ^The,  heavens,  when  spoken  of  in  a  general 
manner. 

Angle. — The  Ist,  4th,  7th,  and  10th  houses.  When  planets 
are  therein,  they  are  more  powerfal  than  in  any  other  situ- 
ation.    Their  order  of  strength  is  10th,  1st,  7th,  4th. 

Application. — ^To  apply.  These  terms  mean  the  approach 
of  any  planet  to  the  body  or  aspect  of  another,  or  to  the 
cusp  of  any  house. 

Ascension,  Right. — ^The  distance  any  body  or  point  in  the 
heavens  is  from  the  beginning  of  the  ecHptic,  or  first  point 
of  Aries  in  a  right  sphere.  It  is  measured  upon  the  equa- 
tor in  degrees  and  minutes  of  a  degree,  or  hours,  minutes, 
and  seconds.     It  is  thus  abbreviated  A.B. 

Ascension,  Oblique. — If  a  star  be  not  on  the  equator,  it 
will,  when  it  rises,  form  an  angle  with  that  part  of  the 
equator  which  is  rising  at  the  same  time,  and  this  is  called 
its 

Ascensional  Difpeeence. — This,  added  to  its  right  ascen- 
sion (A.B>.)  if  it  have  Bouth  declination,  but  subtracted 
therefrom  if  it  have  north  declination,  gives  its  obUque  as- 
cension. 

Ascendant. — The  fir%t  house,  or  tliat  space  between  the 
eastern  horizon  and  one-third  of  the  distance  towards  the 
meridian  under  the  Earth. 

Benepics. — ^The  good  planets  7/  and  ?  . , 

Cadent. — A  planet  which  has  passed  any  angle,  and  remains 
within  one-third  of  its  semi-arc  of  the  cusp  of  that  angle. 
The  whole  space  of  the  3d,  6th,  9th,  and  12th  houses. 


456  GBAMMJLB  O?  ASTBOLOGT. 

CiBCL£S  OF  PosmoK. — An  astronomical  term  used  in  calcu- 
lating the  polar  eleyation  of  any  planet.  They  are  small 
circles  bearing  the  same  relation  to  the  meridian  circle 
which  the  parallels  of  latitude  do  to  the  equator. 

Combust. — ^Being  within  about  Si  degrees  of  the  ©,  when 
the  planet  loses  part  of  its  power  (owing  to  the  burning 
quahties  of  ©),  which  is  transferred  to  that  luminary. 
If  the  planet  have  great  latitude,  the  Q  has  not  much 
power  on  it  beyond  the  distance  of  7  degrees. 

CoNYEBSE  MoTTOir  is  that  which  is  caused  by  the  diurnal  rota-  ' 
tion  of  the  Earth  on  its  axis,  which  makes  the  Q,   }),  &c., 
appear  to  rise,  approach  the  meridian,  set,  &c.     It  applies 
particularly  to  the  Q  and  ]) ,  when  they  are  carried  towards 
the  promittors  or  their  aspects. 

Cusp. — ^The  beginning  of  any  house.  Thus  the  eastern  ho- 
rizon is  the  cusp  of  the  1st  house ;  and  the  meridian, 
where  the  Q  is  at  noon,  is  the  beginning,  or  cusp  of  the 
10th  house. 

Declzkatioit. — ^The  distance  any  body  is  north  or  south  of 
the  equator.  The  Q  never  has  more  than  23**  28'  of  de- 
clination, which  is  when  he  is  in  one  of  the  tropics,  and  is 
caused  by  the  pole  of  the  Earth  being  inclined  from  the 
plane  of  ihe  Earth's  orbit. 

Desceksion. — ^The  going  down  of  any  body  from  the  meri- 
dian above  to  that  below  the  Earth  ;  for  though  the  Q  is 
lost  sight  of  at  sunset,  he  still  descends  till  he  reaches  the 
meridian  at  midnight. 

Descension,  Oblique. — ^The  reverse  of  oblique  Ascension 
(which  see,) 

Descekdant. — ^The  7th  house,  or  that  space  from  the  western 
horizon  to  one-third  of  the  distance  towards  the  meridian 
above  the  Earth. 

DiBECTiOK. — The  measuring  the  space  between  the  bodies  or 


OIIA.MMAB  or  ASTBOLOGT.  457 

aspects  of  any  two  planets,  or  that  between  any  two  parts 
of  the  heavens,  to  ascertain  at  what  period  of  Hfe  the  pro- 
mised effect  will  appear.  This  distance  is  a  certain  number 
of  degrees  of  the  A.B.  of  the  Sun,  which,  when  he  has  passed 
over,  the  direction  is  complete.  It  is  called  the  Arc  of 
Direction. 

DiEECTiON,  Seconbaet. — The  aspects  formed  by  the  moon 
in  the  days  immediately  succeeding  the  birth.  Each  day 
between  the  birth  and  the  time  the  aspect  is  formed  is 
equal  to  one  exact  year  of  life ;  thus,  if  the  J)  form  a  good 
aspect  with  11,  exactly  21  days  after  birth,  the  native  wiU 
feel  its  effects  just  about  his  21st  birthday. 

DiEECT  Motion. — This  is  in  reality  converse  motion,  but  is 
so  called  to  distinguish  the  case  of  the  promittors  being 
carried  towards  the  bodies  or  aspects  of  the  Sun  or  Moon, 
which  directions  are  considered  somewhat  less  powerful  than 
those  by  converse  motion, 

DixTEKAL  Aec. — Is  the  length  of  time  that  part  of  the  hea- 
vens in  which  any  planet  is  at  birth  is  above  the  Earth ; 
and  it  is  usually  measured  in  degrees. 

Eaetht  Signs. —  0,  trp,  and  Yf  • 

Equation  of  Time. — Owing  to  the  irregular  motion  of  the 
Earth  round  the  Sun,  this  latter  body  does  not  always  come 
to  the  meridian  exactly  24  hours  after  its  last  passage  over 
that  point ;  but  as  all  calculations  in  the  old  Ephemeres  of 
the  places  of  the  planets  are  made  for  the  time  the  Sun  was 
on  the  meridian  (or  apparent  noon\  the  watch  sometimes 
was  several  minutes  before  or  after  noon  at  that  moment. 
This  difference  between  the  apparent  noon,  or  that  shewn 
by  the  Sun,  being  on  the  meridian,  and  the  mean  noon,  or 
that  shewn  by  a  correct  watch,  is  the  Equation  of  Time, 
which  is  the  angular  distance  in  time  between  the  mean  and 
the  true  Sun.  The  amount  to  be  added  to,  or  taken  from, 
the  time  shewn  by  the  watch  is  given  for  every  sixth  day 


458  QRiLMMAB  OF  ASTBOLOOT. 

in  my  Ephemeris.  If  the  Ephemeris  says,  "  clock  before 
Sun,"  then  take  the  time  mentioned  from  the  time  of  birth  ; 
but  if  it  say,  "  clock  after  Sun,"  then  add  the  time  men- 
tioned (which  is  the  equation  of  time)  to  the  time  of  birth, 
as  shewn  by  the  watch. — Example.  The  Ephemeris  giyet 
the  equation  of  time  for  November  1,  1840,  "clock  slow 
16m.  1  Ts."  :  hence,  if  the  time  of  birth  by  a  watch  were  the 
Ist  of  November,  1840,  at  6  o'clock  p.m.  the  apparent  time 
of  birth  would  be  6h.  16m.  17s.  p.m.,  to  which  time  all  the 
planets'  places,  &c.,  and  the  figure  of  the  heavens,  must  be 
calculated.  But  this  rule  applies  only  to  Ephemeres  which 
are  calculated  to  apparent  time.  In  my  Ephemeris  they 
are  calculated  to  mean  time,  and  do  not  require  this  cor- 
rection. 

Fleet  Signs. —  r,  Sl^  and  $ . 

FiouEB  OF  THE  Heaveks. — A  map  or  picture  of  the  heavens 
as  they  exist  at  the  moment  any  one  is  born  ;  shewing  the 
points  of  the  zodiac  rising,  setting,  and  on  the  meridian ; 
also  those  on  the  cusp  of  each  house,  and  the  situations  of 
the  planets. 

Houses. — The  divisions  of  the  heavens  which  form  (^,  D>  or 
A)  aspects  with  the  meridian  or  ascendant ;  or,  in  other 
words,  those  spaces  which  shew  the  one-third  part  of  any 
planet's  semi-arc,  either  above  or  bdow  the  horizon.  They 
are  also  portions  of  oblique  ascension,  consisting  of  30  de- 
grees each,  or  one-twelfth  part  of  the  whole  circle  of  360 
degrees,  being  thus  each  equal  to  one  sign  of  the  zodiac ; 
and,  like  them,  they  are  twelve  in  number,  and  are  reckon- 
ed from  the  eastern  horizon  towards  the  left  hand,  in  the 
order  of  the  signs,  the  ascendant  being  the  Ist  house. 
{See  figure  1.) 

Htleo. — That  body  or  point  which  is  the  giver  of  life. 

Hylegiaoal  Places. — The  1st  house,  from  5**  above  to 
25°  below  its  cusp  ;  the  7th  house,  from  5**  below  to  25**  above 


GRAMMAR  OP   ASTROLOGY.  459 

its  cusp ;  the  9th  house,  from  5*"  outside  its  cusp  to  half 
way  between  the  mid-heaven  and  the  ascendant. 

Ingress. — A  transit  over  the  place  the  0,  ]) ,  M.  C,  or  asc. 
has  arrived  at  in  the  zodiac. 

Latitudb,  on  the  earth,  is  the  distance  of  any  place  north  or 
south  of  the  equatorial  line ;  in  the  heavens,  it  is  the  dis- 
tance of  any  body  north  or  south  of  the  ecliptical  line. 

LoNGrriTDE,  on  the  earth,  is  the  distance  of  any  place  east  or 
west  of  Greenwich  ;  in  the  heavens,  is  the  distance  of  any 
body  from  the  first  point  of  the  zodiac  T,  0°  0',  measured 
on  the  ecliptic. 

Lights  of  LuMiifARiES. — ^The  0  or  }) . 

Lunation. — The  d,  D,  or  ^  of  0  and  ]) ;  also  the  length 
of  time  in  which  J  appears  to  move  round  the  Earth  ;* 
the  time  from  new  Moon  to  new  Moon. 

Maletios. — J^,  h ,  and  (J . 

M.  C.  OR  Medium  C<eli,  or  Mid-heaven. — The  meridian 
above  the  Earth. 

Meridian. — ^That  point  which  is  always  south  (where  0  is  at 
noon)  is  the  meridian  above  the  Earth;  and  that  point 
which  is  always  north  (where  0  is  at  midnight)  is  the 
meridian  below  the  Earth. 

Meridian  Distance,  the  distance  any  body  is  by  A.  R.  from 
the  meridian. 

Moderator. — ^The  ©,  J,  Asc,  M.  C,  or  ®,  because  each 
acts  in  a  mode  pecuUar  to  itself. 

Nocturnal  Arc. — The  length  of  time  any  point  in  the  Hea- 
vens is  below  the  Earth,  firom  its  setting  till  it  rises  again. 
It  is  usually  turned  into  degrees. 

Node. — That  part  of  the  ecliptic  where  a  planet  passes  out  of 
north  into  south  latitude  is  its  south  node ;  that  where  it 
goes  into  north  latitude  is  its  north  node. 

'^  The  term ''  appears^'  is  used,  because,  in  reality,  the  ^  does  not  move 
round  the  Earth. 


460  OBAMMAB  or  ASTBOLOGT. 

Oeibntal,  OociDBiirrAL. — From  the  4th  house  eastward  to 
the  10th  is  oriental;  and  from  the  10th  westward  to  the 
4th  is  occidental.  But  Q  or  })  are  oriental  between  the 
Ist  and  10th  audits  opposite  quarter,  and  are  occidental  be- 
tween the  10th  and  7th  and  its  opposite  quarter. 

Paballels,  in  the  godiac,  are  equal  distances  from  the 
equator,  or  having  the  same  declination,  whether  of  the 
same  name  or  the  opposite.  In  the  world,  they  are  equal 
distances  from  the  meridian,  in  proportion  to  the  semi-arcs 
of  the  planets  which  form  them. 

PoLAE  Elbtation  OB  PoLB. — The  pole  of  a  country  is  its 
latitude ;  that  of  a  body  in  the  heavens  is  a  certain  eleva- 
tion from  the  meridian  towards  the  horizon.  The  word 
"  pole"  has  caused  some  confusion ;  it  is  merely  an  abbre- 
viation for  **  polar  elevation." 

Pbomittob. — ^The  planets  y,  ^,1!;,  <?,  ?,  and  J.  If 
0  or  ])  are  directed  to  each  other,  the  one  directed  to  may 
be  termed  a  promittor ;  so  if  0,  Asc.,  or  M.  C,  be  directed 
to  O  or  ]) ,  these  become  promittors,  because  they  promise 
the  event. 

Radical  ;  Radix. — ^The  figure  at  birth  is  the  radix  or  root 
from  which  every  thing  is  judged ;  and  the  term  radical 
refers  to  it. 

Rapt  Paballbl. — ^Parallels  formed  by  the  motion  of  the 
Earth  on  its  axis,  where  both  bodies  are  rapt  or  carried 
away  by  the  same  until  they  come  to  equal  distances  from 
the  meridian. 

Reotification. — The  correcting  the  supposed  time  of  birth, 
to  find  the  true  time. 

Retboobadb. — The  backward  motion  which  the  planets  ap- 
pear to  have  sometimes,  in^  consequence  of  the  position  and 
motion  of  the  Earth. 
Retolutiok. — The  moving  round  the  ©  by  the  Earth,  which 


6BAMMAB  OF  ASTBOLOGY.  461 

makes  the  Q  appear  to  revolve  and  return  to  his  place  at 
birth  once  a  year ;  very  near  the  time  of  birth. 

Semi-ABC. — ^The  half  the  arc  a  planet  would  form  above  the 
Earth  if  it  Temtanedjixed  in  the  zodiac  firom  the  time  of  its 
rising  until  that  of  its  setting,  is  called  its  semi-arc  diurnal. 
The  half  of  the  arc  it  would,  in  like  circumstances,  form 
under  the  Earth  from  its  setting  until  its  rising,  is  called 
its  semi-arc  nocturnal.  If  a  planet  were  to  be  on  the 
mid-heaven,  and  not  to  move  out  of  its  place  in  the  zodiac, 
it  would  set,  and  then  descend  to  the  north  meridian  in 
exactly  12  sidereal  hours,  because  the  Earth  is  12  such 
hours  in  turmng  half  round ;  consequently  whatever  time 
the  planet  took  in  going  from  the  mid-heaven  to  the  hori- 
zon, if  that  lime  be  taken  from  12  hours,  it  would  shew 
the  time  it  takes  to  go  from  the  horizon  to  the  meridian 
below  the  Earth.  Hence,  if  we  know  the  length  of  a  semi- 
arc,  by  deducting  it  from  180**  (which  are  half  the  circle), 
we  have  the  other  semi-arc  of  that  part  of  the  heavens. — 
N.B.  The  spot  a  planet  was  in  at  birth  is  to  be  considered 
as  the  planet  itself,  because  its  influence  is  fixed  in  that 
spot  during  the  life  of  the  native,  however  the  planet  itself 
may  move  on  in  the  zodiac,  &c. 

Sepabation. — ^When  an  aspect  is  past,  the  planets,  &c.  are 
said  to  be  separating  from  that  aspect ;  and  observe,  that 
in  a  nativity  the  influence  of  any  aspect  to  the  moderators 
is  more  powerful  if  it  be  a  few  (4  or  5)  degrees  past,  than 
if  it  be  not  yet  formed. 

Sldebeal  Time  is  the  angular  distance  of  the  first  point  of 
Aries,  or  the  true  vernal  equinox.  It  is  of  course  the  true 
right  ascension  on  the  meridian  at  mean  noon,  or  that  shewn 
by  a  good  clock. 

SiGNinCATOB. — That  body  or  point  which  is  directed,  as  it 
signifies  the  nature  of  the  direction's  influence.     This  is  a 


462  GEAMMAB  OP  ASTBOLOGT. 

term  that  has  been  grossly  abased  in  the  science,  and  might, 
perhaps,  be  dispensed  with. 

SuccEBDENT. — Those  houses  which  lie  betweea  the  angular 
and  cadent  houses,  yiz.  2d,  5th,  8th,  and  11th,  and  planets 
in  them. 

SnFEBiOBS  and  Ikpebiobs.  }^,  T2,  7/,  and  ^,  are  called 
the  former,  being  beyond  the  Earth;  and  $  and  $  are 
called  the  latter,  being  between  the  Earth  and  the  Sun.  The 
former  are  far  more  powerful  and  durable,  in  general,  in 
their  effects. 

TBAifsiTS. — These  are  the  passing  over  the  place  of  any  mo- 
derator or  planet,  or  their  aspects,  either  in  the  radix  or 
revolution,  &c.  by  any  other  body. 

Watbet  Signs. — s,  n^,  and  K- 

A  Description  of  the  Twelve  Houses, 
1st. — This  influences  the  person,  health,  and  character  of  the 

native.     Good  planets  shew  a  good  constitution  and  bene- 
volent disposition ;  evil  planets  the  reverse. 
2d. — Influences  in  some  degree  the  property  of  the  native.     If 

good  planets  be  there,  they  assist  to  give  wealth,  according 

to  their  nature ;  evil  planets  the  reverse. 
3d.— This  influences  the  native's  joumies,  and  his  brethren  or 

near  relations. 
4th. — This  influences  the  native's  father,  and  his  property  in 

land  or  houses,  his  inheritance,  &c. 
5th. — ^This  affects  his  children,  and  the  good  or  evil  he  may 

receive  thereby. 
6th. — ^This  will  shew  something  of  the  nature  of  the  diseases 

he  may  be  subject  to. 
7th. — ^This  has  influence  on  the  native's  fate  in  marriage. 
8th. — ^This  points  out,  in  part,  the  quality  of  his  death. 
9th. — This  has  something  to  do  with  his  distant  voyages,  and 

his  pursuits  in  science,  law,  &c.  ^ 


6BAMMAB  OF  ASTBOLOaX.  463 

10th.— This  has  much  influence  on  his  honour  or  credit,  and 
on  his  trade,  profession,  or  employment. 

1 1th. — ^This  house  will  shew  the  character  of  his  friends,  whe- 
ther true  or  false. 

1 2th. — ^This  is  the  house  of  private  enemies,  and  according  to 
the  quality  of  planets  therein  will  the  native  meet  with  per- 
sons to  do  him  secret  mischief. 

Observation. — ^The  student  must  he  cautious  not  to  rely  too 
much  on  the  effects  of  the  houses,  as  that  has  been  one  of 
the  great  follies  of  the  Arabian  and  old  EngUsh  writers  on 
the  science.  When  a  direction  is  complete,  the  house  in 
which  the  body  directed  falls  will  help  to  point  out  the 
character  of  the  circumstances  it  will  produce  ;  thus,  if  © 
or  })  come  to  an  ill  aspect  with  J  in  the  9th,  or  with  Igi  (he 
being  in  evil  aspect  to  §  at  birth),  it  may  very  probably 
produce  a  lawsuit.  If  directions  fall  in  the  ascendant,  they 
generally  affect  healthy  or  the  personal  affairs  of  the  native. 


464 


GEi.mCA.B  07  ASTBOLOeX. 


Fio.l 


§1 


»-  ! 


North. 


GBA.MMAB  OF  A8TB0L0GT. 


465 


Fig.  2. 


93o22' 
A.  R.  of  N.  Mend. 


466 


aBAHMAIt  07  ASTBOIiOGY. 


A  Table  to  titrn  Time  ikto  DEasEES  and  MnniTBS,   ob 

TO  TUEN  DflaBEES  AND  MlNXTTES  INTO  TiME. 


Deg. 

B.  11 

Deg. 

H.  M. 

Deg. 

H.  M. 
M.  8. 

4.  4 

Deg. 

Min. 

91 

H.  H. 

Deg. 

H.  U. 

Deg. 

n.  M. 

Mia. 

M.  B 

Mia. 

M.  8 

Mln. 

K.  8 

6.  4 

Mln. 
121 

M.  8. 

Min. 

M.  B. 

10.  4 

1 

0.  4 

31 

2.  4 

61 

8.  4 

151 

2 

0.  8 

32 

2.  8 

62 

4.  8 

92 

6.  8 

122 

8.  8 

152 

10.  8 

3 

0.12 

33 

2.12 

63 

4.12 

93 

6.12 

123 

8.12 

153 

10.12 

4 

0.16 

34 

2.16 

64 

4.16 

94 

6.16 

124 

8.16 

154 

10.16 

5 

0.20 

35 

2.20 

65 

4.20 

95 

6.20 

125 

8.20 

155 

10.20 

6 

0.24 

36 

2.24 

66 

4.24 

96 

6.24 

126 

8.24 

156 

10.24 

7 

0.28 

37 

2.28 

67 

4.28 

97 

6.28 

127 

8.28 

157 

10.28 

8 

0.32 

38 

2.32 

68 

4.32 

98 

6.32 

128 

8.32 

158 

10.32 

9 

0.36 

39 

2.36 

69 

4.36 

99 

6.36 

129 

8.36 

159 

10.36 

10 

0.40 

40 

2.40 

70 

4.40 

100 

6.40 

130 

8-40 

160 

10.40 
10.44 

11 

0.44 

41 

2.44 

71 

4.44 

101 

6.44 

131 

8.44 

161 

12 

0.48 

42 

2.48 

72 

4.48 

102 

6.48 

132 

8.48 

162 

10.48 

13 

0.52 

43 

2.62 

73 

4.52 

103 

6.52 

133 

8.52 

163 

10-52 

14 

0.56 

44 

2.56 

74 

4.56 

104 

6.56 

134 

8.56 

164 

10.56 

15 

1.  0 

45 

3.  0 

75 

5.  0 

105 

7.  0 

135 

9.  0 

165 

U.  0 

16 

1.  4 

46 

3.  4 

76 

5.  4 

106 

7.  4 

136 

9.  4 

166 

11.  4 

17 

1.  8 

47 

3.  8 

77 

5.  8 

107 

7.  8 

137 

9.  8 

167 

11.  8 

18 

1.12 

48 

3.12 

78 

5.12 

108 

7.12 

138 

9.12 

168 

11.12 

19 

1.16 

49 

3.16 

79 

5.16 

109 

7.16 

139 

9.16 

169 

11.16 

20 

1.20 

50 

3.20 

80 

5.20 

110 

7.20 

140 

9.20 

170 

11.20 
11.24 

21 

1.24 

51 

3.24 

81 

5.24 

111 

7.24 

141 

9.24 

171 

22 

1.28 

52 

3.28 

82 

5.28 

112 

7.28 

142 

9.28 

172 

11.28 

23 

1.32 

53 

3.32 

83 

5.32 

113 

7.32 

143 

9.32 

173 

11.32 

24 

1.36 

54 

3.36 

84 

5.36 

114 

7.36 

144 

9.36 

174 

11.36 

25 

1.40 

55 

3.40 

85 

5.40 

115 

7.40 

145 

9.40 

175 

11.40 

26 

1.44 

56 

3.44 

86 

5.44 

116 

7.44 

146 

9.44 

176 

11.44 

27 

1.48 

57 

3.48 

87 

5.48 

117 

7.48 

147 

9.48 

177 

11.48 

28 

1.52 

58 

3.52 

88 

552 

118 

752 

148 

9.52 

178 

11.52 

29 

1.56 

59 

3.56 

89 

5.56 

119 

7.56 

149 

9.56 

179 

11.56 

30 

2.  0 

60  4.  0 

90 

6.  0 

120  '8.  0 

ISO'IO.O 

180 '12.  0 

CUtAMlfAB  OP  ASTBOLO^T.  467 


ExPLiLNATION    OF    THB    TaBLE    TO    TUBJT   DbOXSES    AlTD 
MeBTUTSS  into  IjME,  OB  THB   BeYEBSB. 

Rule  to  turn  Degrees  into  Time, — Look  in  the  column 
marked  deg.  min.  for  the  number  of  degrees  required,  and 
opposite  to  them,  in  the  next  column  to  the  right  hand,  will 
be  the  hours  and  minutes. 

Rule  to  turn  Minutes  of  a  Degree  into  Time, — Look  in  the 
column  marked  deg.  min.  for  the  number  of  minutes  re- 
quired, and  opposite  to  them,  in  the  next  column  to  the 
right  hand,  will  be  the  minutes  and  seconds  of  time. — N.B.  If 
the  degrees  are  above  180,  take  that  number  firom  them,  and 
find  the  time  for  the  remainder ;  then  to  that  time  add  12 
hours. 

Example. — ^What  is  the  time  answering  to  49  degrees  and 
27  minutes  ?    The  number  opposite  49  degrees  is — 

3"*   16"  0* 

The  number  opposite  27  minutes  is  .  ]     48 

Answer     .  3     17    48 


Rule  to  turn  Time  into  Degrees,  ^c, — Look  opposite  the 
required  hours  and  minutes  for  the  degrees  in  tiie  column 
before  it ;  and  if  the  time  be  minutes  and  seconds^  that  co- 
lumn will  shew  minutes  of  a  degree. 


H   H 


468 


GEAIOUB  OF  ABTBOLOGT. 


A  Table  ov  the  Poles  oi*  the  Houses  fob  etbby  wat.t 
Degbee  of  Latitude  is  Gbeat  BEiTAiir, 


Ascendant,  or 

3rd,  5th,  9th,  or 

2nd,  6th,  8th,  or 

7th  House. 

nth  House. 

12th  House. 

50  :   b 

^  :  33 

39  :  14 

50 

30 

22  :  58 

39  :  46 

51 

0 

23  :  21 

40  :  18 

♦51 

:  32 

23  :  48 

40  :  53 

52 

:   0 

24  :  12 

41  :  24 

52 

;  30 

24  :  44 

42  :   4 

53 

:   0 

25  :   6 

42  :  32 

53 

:  30 

25  :  32 

43  :   5 

54 

0 

26  I   1 

43  :  39 

54 

J  30 

26 

.  30 

44  :  13 

55 

0 

26 

59 

44  :  48 

55 

30 

27 

29 

45  :  24 

56 

0 

28 

1 

45  :  59 

56 

30 

28 

33 

46  :  36 

57 

0 

29 

6 

47  :  13 

57 

30 

29 

40 

47  :  50 

58  . 

0 

30 

15 

48  :  27 

EXPLAITATIOH  OF  THE  TaBLB  OF  THE  POLES  OF  HoUSES. 

This  table  will  serve  for  any  place  in  Great  Britain,  for 
which  it  may  be  desired  to  erect  a  figure  of  the  heavens.  The 
Ist  column  shews  the  pole  of  the  Ist  and  7th  houses,  which 
is  always  the  latitude  of  the  country ;  the  2d  column  shews 
the  pole  of  the  3d,  5th,  9th,  or  1 1th  houses ;  and  the  3d  co- 
lumn the  pole  of  the  2d,  6th,  8th,  or  12th  houses.  If  the 
latitude  of  the  place  fall  any  where  between  an  even  degree 
and  half  degree,  a  proportion  may  be  readily  calculated  for 

*  The  Latitude  or  Pole  of  London. 


OBAMAfAB  OF  ASTBOLOGY.  469 

tihe  diiference ;  thus,  if  the  latitude  be  that  of  Liverpool, 
53°  25',  and  it  be  required  to  find  the  pole  of  the  12th  house, 
say,  as  30  miles  are  to  the  difference  between  the  poles  of  the 
12th,  for  53  degrees  and  53°  Sif,  which  is  33  minutes,  so  is 
the  difference  of  latitude  25  to  the  difference  of  pole  27i 
minutes,  to  be  added  to  the  pole  of  the  12th  for  53  degrees. 
Hence  the  pole  of  the  12th  at  Liverpool  is  42°  59 V>  which  is 
correct  with  that  found  by  trigonometry  to  within  half  a 
minute,  its  true  pole  being  42°  59'» 

rltles  to  caloitlatb  the  longittjdb  ot  the  cusps  op  the 
Houses, 

For  persons  not  possessing  a  table  qf  houses;  or  if  the  birth  be  far  distant 
m  latitude  from  the  place  for  which  the  table  of  houses  is  calculated. 

Rule  1. — ^The  oblique  ascension'  of  the  house  is  found  by 
adding  30°  to  the  A.  B.  of  the  M.  C.  for  each  house  distant ; 
thus,  30°  for  the  1 1th,  60°  for  the  12th,  90°  for  the  ascendant, 
120°  for  the  2d,  and  150°  for  the  the  3d. 

Rule  2. — Find  the  distance  of  the  cusp  of  the  house  from 
T  or  £}: ;  the  former  by  taking  its  oblique  ascension  from 
360  if  above  270°,  or  the  latter  by  taking  it  from  180°  if 
above  90°. 

Rule  3. — ^Add  the  log.  cosine  of  the  obHque  ascension  of  the 
cusp  of  the  house  (reduced  as  by  Rule  2)  to  the  log,  co- 
tangent of  the  pole  of  the  house :  the  sum  is  the  log.  co- 
tangent of  angle  A. 

Rule  4.— If  the  obHque  ascension  be  les$  than  90°  from 
Aries,  add  23°  28'  to  angle  A ;  if  it  be  less  than  90°  from 
Libra,  take  the  difference  between  23°  28'  and  angle  A  :  the 
result  call  angle  B. 

Rule  5. — Add  together  the  arithmetical  complement  of  the 
log,  cosine  of  B,  the  log.  cosine  of  A,  and  the  log.  tangent  of 
the  obHque  ascension  of  the  cusp  of  the  house  :  the  sum  will 


470  GBAMMAB  OF  ASTBOLOaT. 

be  the  log.  tangent  of  its  longitude  from  Aries  or  Libra,  ac- 
cording as  it  was  nearest  to  either  by  oblique  ascension. 

N.B.  If  angle  B  exceed  QO,""  take  the  log.  Hne  of  the  ex- 
cess above  90^  instead  of  the  log.  cosine,  and  find  its  arith- 
metical complement.  And  in  this  case  the  longitude  must  be 
reckoned  from  the  oppo»te  equinox  to  that  of  the  oblique 
ascension;  if  the  oblique  ascension  was  measured  from  T> 
reckon  it  from  £h  ;  and  if  the  oblique  ascension  was  mea- 
sured from  £i,  reckon  the  longitude  from  T. 

Exan^le.—li  the  A.  R.  of  the  M.  C.  at  Liverpool  be  273°  19',  what 
degree  c^  the  zodiac  it  ascending  ? 

A,  R.  of  M.  C 273»  19' 

Add  90«»  for  3  houses 90     0 

363   19 
A.  R.of  T  0»a' 360    0 

Oblique  ascension  of  ascendant 3  19 

Log.cosineof  3°  19' 9.99927 

.  Log.  co-tangent  of  pole  of  Liverpool  53®  25' 9.87053 

Log.  co-tangent  angle  A,  which  is  53<>  28'  9.86980 

Angle  A    53o  28' 

Add  (the  oblique  asc  being  nearest  t) 23    28 

The  sum  is  angle  B -  ^^    &6 

Log.  cosine  Angle  B  (A  comp.)    0.64573 

Log.  cosine  angle  A 9.77473 

Log.  tangent  obUque  asc  from  T  =3»  19'   8.763U6 

Log.  tangent  of  longitude  from  T  =  8»  41 9.18352 

It  will  be  seen  that  the  longitude  of  the  ascendant  differs 
slightly  from  that  of  London ;  which  makes  no  dififeroice, 
except  in  bringing  the  ])  to  the  ascendant  by  second  motion, 


APFJEJSTDJX.  471 

as  it  is  the  A.  B.  of  the  M.  C,  or  ohlique  ascension  of  the 
ascendant,  and  not  the  longitude,  which  is  used  in  working 
directions."^ 


APPENDIX. 

LOGABITHMS. 

The  invention  of  logarithms  is  due  to  Lord  Napier,  Baron  of 
Merchiston,  in  Scotland,  a  very  celebrated  Astrologer  of  the 
16th  century.  The  first  table  of  logarithms  was  published 
by  the  inventor  at  Edinburgh,  in  1614.  There  have  been 
numerous  others  published  since,  of  which  the  best  I  have 
seen  are  those  by  Dr.  Georgia  Frederico  Ursino,  in  1827. 
But  there  is  a  neat  edition  published  in  1 839  by  the  Society 
for  the  Diffusion  of  Useful  Knowledge,  which  is  low  priced 
and  correct.f 

Logarithms  were  invented  to  facilitate  complex  computa- 
tions in  numbers,  which  Lord  Napier  had  much  trouble  with 
in  his  astrological  researches.  They  perform  multiplication 
by  addition,  for  the  sum  of  the  logarithm  of  any  two 
numbers  is  the  logarithm  of  their  product;  and  division 
by  subtraction,  for  the  logarithm  of  the  dividend  mimis 
the  logarithm  of  the  divisor  is  equal  to  the  logarithm  of 
the  quotient.  Also  the  logarithm  multiplied  by  the  index 
of  the  power  raises  the  power;  and  the  logarithm  of  the 
number  divided  by  the  index  of  the  root  extracts  the  root,  &c. 

Logarithms  are  a  series  of  numbers  in  arithmetical  pro- 
gression, which  answer  to  another  series  of  numbers  in  geo- 
metrical progression. 

*  The  tables  of  houses  for  London  and  Liverpool,  which  will  be  found 
in  my  ''Tables  for  Calculating  NatiTities/'  will  render  it  unnecessary  to 
refer  to  this  formula  in  any  part  of  England. 

t  Taylor  and  Walton,  London. 


4/2  APPENDIX. 

The  most  conyenient  series  is  the  following : 

0  1  2  3  4  5     &c  index 

1  10  100  1000  10000  100000  logarithm 
Wherein  the  index  is  seen  to  be  always  one  less  than  the  num- 
ber of  figures  the  integer  contains. 

To  find  the  Logarithm  of  any  Number » 
Look  for  the  number  in  the  column  headed  ''Num.""'  and 
the  log.  will  be  found  opposite. 

To  find  the  Number  to  any  Logarithm. 

The  logarithm  must  be  sought  for,  and  the  number  wiU 
be  found  on  the  left  hand. 

To  find  the  Logarithm,  Sine,  Tangent,  &c. 
Look  for  the  degree  at  the  top  of  the  page,  and  the  minute 
on  the  left  hand  side;  or  the  degree  at  bottom,  and  the 
minute  on  the  right  hand. 

To  multiply  by  Logarithms. 
Rule. — Add  the  logarithms  of  the  multiplier  and  multipH« 
cand,  and  the  sum  is  the  logarithm  of  the  product. 
Multiply    98    Logarithm  =  1.99123 
By  76    Logarithm  =  1.88081 

Product  7448    Logarithm  =  387204 

To  divide  by  Logarithms. 

Rule. — Subtract  the  logarithm  of  the  divisor  firom  that  of 

the  dividend,  and  there  remains  the  logarithm  of  the  quotient 

DWide    7448    Logarithm  =  3.87204 

By  76    Logarithm  =  1.88081 

Quotient    98    Logarithm  =  1.99123 

*  In  Taylor  and  Walton's  Tables  of  Logarithms,  which  require^  how- 
ever,  close  attention  to  the  rule  of  the  index  being  one  less  than  the  figures 
of  the  integer.  v 


APPENDIX  473 

the  Rule  of  Three  by  Logarithms^ 

Rule. — ^Add  the  logarithms  of  the  three  terms  to  find  that 
of  the  4th. 'I'  If  in  712  hours  the  >  progress  230.15  days^ 
what  progress  will  she  make  in  708.5  hours  ? 

712  hours  Logarithm  (Arith.  Comp.)   7.14752 

'230.15        Logarithm  2.36202 

::  708.5  Logarithm 2.85034 

:  229.2  Logarithm 2.35988 

Where  the  index  exceeds  10,  reject  that  amount. 

To  work  Problems  in  Spherical  Trigonometry  by  Logarithms. 
This  is  the  same  as  the  rule  of  three ;  hut  the  logarithms 
of  the  terms  are  those  of  sines,  tangents,  &c.  The  logarithm  of 
the  1st  term  (unless  it  he  radius,  in  which  case  we  always  take 
the  logarithm  of  the  sine  of  90"*  ==  10.00000)  must  he  taken 
from  9.99990  to  find  its  arithmetical  complement,  for  the  sake 
of  working  hy  addition.  The  tens  in  the  index  must  he  re- 
jected. And  if  we  want  the  logarithm  for  any  numher  of 
degrees  ahove  90°,  subtract  the  given  degrees  from  180°,  and 
take  the  logarithm  of  the  remainder.  If  90°  be  subtracted 
from  the  given  sine,  the  log.  cosine  may  be  taken. 

Useful  Notes. 

Logarithm 

360  degrees  in  seconds =  1296000  6.1 1260 

24  hours  in  seconds   =       86400  4.93651 

Sidereal  day  in  seconds =      86164  4.93533 

Sidereal  revolution  of  the  earth  in  1      355.25636  2.56260 

mean  solar  days   J 

Earth's  equatorial  radius  m  English!      209.21665  7.32060 

feet J 

Earth's  polar  rad.  in  ditto 208.52394  7.31916 

*  Take  the  arithmetical  complement  of  the  Ist  term. 


474  AFFBITDIX. 

Logarithm 
Degree  in  latitude  52*  SC  in  Eng-I         3^^^^^     ^^^^29 

liBh  feet    J 

Ditto  on  the  equator 362732     5.55959 

Length  (in  Engliah  inches)  of  the  ^ 

pendulom  which  yihratea    seconds  >       39.1393      .59261 

in  lat.  of  Greenwich J 

Obssbyatioks  on  thb  Eitects  op  Directions. 

We  are  to  judge  whether  a  direction  he  good  or  evil  by  the 
nature  of  the  aspect  and  planet.  The  extent  and  character 
of  its  effects  are  to  be  learned  by  the  degree  of  angular  power 
of  the  planety  the  sign  it  is  in,  and  its  freedom  from  afflic- 
tion ;  fdso  the  opposing  influences  are  to  be  well  considered. 
Nor  can  any  safe  judgment  be  formed  unless  all  the  directions 
in  operation  within  six  months  of  the  time,  and  the  transits 
and  ingresses,  be  considered.  A  good  direction  gives  pros- 
perity from  such  things  or  persons  as  the  planet  signifies,  and 
also  as  the  house  of  which  he  is  lord  intimates.  In  the  same 
manner  judge  of  an  evil  direction.  Take  also  into  consider- 
ation the  house  the  moderator  is  in  or  rules  over,  and  also 
the  house  wherein  the  direction  falls  when  complete.  Direc- 
tions in  children's  nativities  act  upon  and  through  their 
parents,  guardians,- &c. 

The  Horoscope  or  ascendant  signifies  all  matters  which 
affect  the  person,  such  as  sickness  or  health,  birth  or  death 
of  children,  &c. ;  also  the  affections  of  the  mind. 

The  Moon's  directions  affect  both  mind  and  body,  also 
wealth  and  character,  as  regards  public  estimation. 

The  Sun  concerns  the  health,  honour,  preferment,  favoar 
of  the  great,  the  father  and  his  affairs. 

The  M.  C.  denotes  honours,  character,  employmait,  credit, 
trade,  &c. ;  also  the  parents. 

The  Para  fortums  has  infiuence  over  money  matters,  and, 
in  some  measure  family  affurs. 


APPBKDIX.  475 

Specific  Rules. 

Asc.  (5  n  <?,  &c.  ^2 .  According  to  the  sign  Fj  w  in  will 
the  native  snffer  sickness,  especially  if  the  ascendant  be 
hyleg),  family  affliction,  or  mischief  by  elderly  persons  or 
saturnine  affairs,  accidents,  falls,  bruises,  &c.  The  mind 
becomes  dull  and  heavy,  the  body  suffers  Imgeriiig  diseases, 
especially  coughs  and  colds,  phlegmatic  complidnts,  and  low 
fevers.  If  both  fj  and  the  ascendant  be  in  watery  signs, 
danger  by  water ;  if  in  irp,  danger  of  suffocation,  or  being 
smothered.     On  this  direction  old  diseases  return. 

Asc.  ^  A  &c.  l2  .  Benefits  by  land  or  houses,  inheritances, 
agricultural  pursuits,  buildings,  &c.  legacies,  gifts,  and  fa- 
vours of  old  persons.  The  native  becomes  grave  and 
studious,  and  also  laborious. 

Asc.  d  "X*  A  &c.  7/ .  Health  in  general,  though,  if  7/  be 
afflicted,  blood  abounds,  and  pleurisy,  &c.  occurs  on  the 
conjunction.  Gifts,  patronage,  new  friends,  children,  pre- 
ferment, and  general  prosperity. 

Asc.  n  i  &c.  7/ .  The  body  is  distempered,  blood  abounds, 
danger  of  pleurisy,  or  liver  complaints,  especially  if  7/  be 
in  i^  or  isj .  In  children  measles,  and,  if  7/  be  affected  by 
<^  the  small  pox.  Losses  of  money  ;  deceptions  and  inju- 
ries by  churchmen  and  magistrates.  The  native  is  careless 
and  improvident ;  false  friends  betray. 

Asc.  d  D  <?  &c.  (J .  Sickness  of  the  nature  of  ^  and  the 
sign  he  is  in,  considered  with  that  of  the  ascendant.  Also 
accidents,  cuts,  bums,  stabs,  &c.  The  native  suffers  by  hot 
diseases,  and  rarely  escapes  loss  of  blood.  He  becomes  quar- 
relsome and  venturesome,  rushes  into  disputes  and  dangers, 
and  suffers  accordingly.  If  he  be  a  gentieman,  he  may  be 
called  out  in  a  duel ;  if  a  mechanic,  he  fights ;  if  a  female, 
she  quarrels  with  her  husband,  &c.  Persons  under  <J  influ- 
ence at  birth  become  violent  and  furious.     If    (J  be  in  an 


476  IPPEKDIX* 

earthy  sign^  he  threatens  great  evil ;  to  kill  or  be  kiUed^  &c. 
in  an  airy  sign  inflammation  of  the  blood,  falls,  &c. ;  in  a 
fiery  sign,  violent  fevers,  bums,  stabs,  &c. ;  in  a  watery 
sign,  bloody  flux,  danger  of  drowning,  &c. 
Asc.  ^  A  &c.  ^  •     The  native  becomes  martial  in  his  ideas, 
delights  in  horse  exercise,  military  afiBedrs,  &c.     He  becomes 
angry  and  impatient,  inventive  and  diligent,  receives  favours 
from  military  persons,  preferments,  &c.  or  studies  chemistry, 
&c«     Females  frequently  marry  under  these  directions,  or 
have  a  son  bom. 
Asc.  ci  O .  The  native  becomes  publicly  employed,  or  receives 
favours   from  public  characters ;  his  reputation  advances. 
Yet  troubles  and  anxieties  attend.   Hot  diseases  in  the  head, 
and  especially  the  eyes.    In  watery  signs,  flow  of  humours. 
Asc.  ^  A»  &c.  0.     Health  of  body,  peace  of  mind,  new 
friends  and  eminent.    Also  preferment  and  creditable  em- 
ployment, honourable  joumies,  &c.     Affairs  generally  suc- 
cessful.   A  female  may  expect  marriage,  or  a  son  bom. 
Asc.  D    (f  9  &c.  O*    Troubles  and  diseases.     Envy  or  ill- 
treatment  from  a  person  in  power,  quarrels,  lawsuits,  pro- 
secutions, &c.    Also  decay  of  estate,  deceit,  and  disrespect 
to  the  native.     Danger  of  imprisonment  and  shipwreck. 
Complaints  in  the  eyes,  acute  diseases,  fever,  &c.     Death 
or  danger  to  the  native's  father. 
Asc.  cS    ^  A>  &c.    9  •    Pleasure  and  content.     He  is  be- 
loved of  women,  marries,  or  has  a  daughter  bom  or  mar- 
ried.    He  purchases  furniture,  clothes,  &c.  and  is  greatly 
given  to  luxury  and  pleasures,  especially  under  the  conjunc- 
tion, where,  if   $  be  afflicted,  he  may  suffer  diseases  ac- 
cordingly. 
Asc.  D  (f ,  &c.  $«    Disease  by  surfeit  or  excess.     Inclined 
to  be  wild,  intemperate,  and  extravagant.     He  runs  into 
vicious  pursuits,  and  is  scandalized.     Many  troubles    by 


APPENDIX.  477 

women,  vexations  in  love  matters,  &c.  jealousy  and  con- 
jugal quarrels. 

Asc.  (j  5  .  This  incites  a  desire  to  study,  poetry,  and  ma- 
thematics. He  takes  a  degree  at  the  University,  or  enters 
some  school  or  college,  if  a  youth.  It  denotes  a  husy  time 
with  accounts,  writings,  law  papers,  &c.  also  joumies  and 
changes  in  situation.  The  whole  good  or  evil  according  to 
the  strength  of  $  in  the  radix. 

Asc.  ^  A>  &c.  ^  •  This  is  of  vthe  same  character  with 
the  <;f  ;  but  no  evil  arises  therefirom,  even  if  ^  be  afflicted. 
It  gives  changes  of  residence. 

Asc.  D  ^,  &c.  $  •  This  brings  expenses  by  literary  things 
and  persons.  A  very  unsettled  time ;  disputes,  quarrels, 
lawsuits,  annoyances  by  young  persons,  &c.  He  may  be 
arrested  or  questioned  for  some  mistake  or  fraud  in  ac- 
counts, or  be  libelled,  or  write  some  foolish  book  or  libel, 
&c.  It  also  causes  cutaneous  diseases,  coughs,  affections 
of  the  breath,  &c.     Much  depends  on  the  aspects  to  $  . 

Asc.  (j  5  .  Sudden  benefits  or  reverses,  changes,  joumies, 
preferment,  losses  by  the  populace,  death  of  the  native's 
mother,  &c.  all  depending  on  the  strength  of  the  })  on  the 
radix*  It  brings  marriage  to  males  and  sea  voyages  to  all. 
It  causes  lunar  diseases,  especially  if  the  ascendant  be  hyleg. 

Asc.  ^  A,  &c.  J .  Content  of  mind  and  body,  much  active 
business  and  employment,  a  journey  or  sea  voyage.  It 
gives  benefits  by  females,  new  female  friends,  marriage,  or 
the  birth  of  a  daughter,  public  esteem  and  prosperity. 

Asc.  D  <?>  &c.  ]) .  Disputes  and  controversies  especially 
with  females  and  vulgar  persons  ;  misfortunes  at  sea,  loss 
of  office,  many  public  affronts  and  open  enemies.  Also 
lunar  diseases,  corrupt  humours,  cancers,  &c.  A  general 
tendency  to  gluttony  and  intemperance,  and  the  consequent 
distempers,  according  to  the  sign  the  })  is  in  at  birth. 


478  ▲^P£in)ix. 

Mxdheaoen  d  D  (f  >  &c.  ^2  •  '^^  anger  of  magistratefl  and 
employers  is  felt;  loss  of  office  and  trade,  dii^race  and 
rain  may  occur.  Death  of  parents,  &c.  He  is  apt  to  act 
discreditably;  bis  servants  do  the  same.  Conspiracies 
against  him,  private  enmity,  &c.  Accusations,  robberies. 
To  a  king  it  denotes  tumults  and  discontent,  breach  of 
treaties,  &c.  And  it  rarely  happens  vithout  lowering  the 
native  in  rank  and  station.  His  parents  suffer  also  by 
death  or  severe  misfortunes. 

Midheaven  d  7/*  Preferment,  employment,  and  numerous 
benefits  by  the  favour  of  some  person  of  rank.  It  raises 
in  life  according  to  the  situation  of  the  native.  Queen 
Victoria  came  to  the  throne  under  this  direction.  It  g^ves 
increase  of  wealth  ;  but  much  depends  on  how  the  M.C.  is 
aspected.  In  a  married  female's  nativity,  it  benefits  her 
husband ;  in  children,  their  parents. 

Midheaven  •^  A*  &c.  11 .  This  acts  like  the  (j,  but  gene- 
rally with  less  power.  The  A  by  7/  coming  to  the  cusp 
of  the  2d  house  gives  great  increase  of  wealth. 

Midheaven  D  <?>  &c.  7/.  Trouble  by  law  and  magistrates, 
the  clergy,  &c. ;  losses  in  commerce  and  trade ;  accusa- 
tions, &c.  against  the  native,  which  rarely  prevail.  He 
suffers  by  persons  pretending  to  rehgion.  To  a  king  it 
causes  great  disputes  about  law  and  privileges,  &c.  quarrels 
with  the  nobility,  &c. 

Midheaven  d  D  <f »  &c.  (J.  Great  mischances  to  life  and 
fortunes.  The  wrath  of  powerful  men  fall  on  the  native. 
He  suffers  wrong  or  injury  in  various  ways,  imprisonment, 
disgrace,  &c.  loss  by  fire,  theft,  &c.  To  a  king  it  denotes 
wax  and  bloodshed,  violent  conduct,  &c.  To  a  soldier  it 
gives  military  authority,  but  danger.  It  often  shews  a 
violent  death,  where  the  radix  prenotes  the  same.  It  kills 
or  afflicts  parents,  &c. 


APPENDIX.  479 

Midheaven  •)(*  A>  &c.  (} .  The  natiTe  takes  to  military  actions, 
fencing,  shooting,  riding,  &c.  and  he  may  enter  the  army 
or  receive  promotion.  To  tradesmen  it  denotes  good  husi- 
ness.  To  kings,  war  or  some  increase  of  the  army.  The 
insurrection  in  Canada  hroke  out  exactly  as  the  M.  C.  came 
to  ^  ^  in  zodiaco  in  Queen  Victoria's  nativity. 

Midheaven  (j  Q.  This  elevates  the  native  to  dignity  and 
honour ;  makes  him  hold  some  public  office,  having  com- 
mand or  control.  It  gives  fame  and  reputation,  and  also 
benefits  the  native's  parents.  Lord  Brougham  became  Lord 
Chancellor  and  a  peer  of  the  realm  under  this  direction. 

Midheaven^  A>  &c.  0.  Preferment,  success,  gifts,  honours, 
&c.  by  means  of  persons  of  rank  and  power."'  It  makes 
the  native  esteem  himself  higher,  and  lays  the  foundation 
for  his  farther  advance  in  life.  In  a  female's  nativity  it 
brings  marriage,  or,  if  married,  the  birth  of  a  son.  To  a 
king  it  brings  victory,  peace,  and  popularity. 

Midheaven  D  (f  >  &c*  O*  This  causes  sudden  disgrace  and 
loss  of  office,  employment,  &c.  It  causes  imprisonment, 
the  sentence  of  a  judge,  &c.  To  a  tradesman,  &c.  it  will 
bring  losses  and  bankruptcy.  It  afflicts  the  parents,  fre- 
quently by  means  of  fire  or  public  calamities.  To  a  king 
it  brings  loss  of  popularity,  and  many  national  evils  and 
sufferings. 

Midheaven  (5  -)(*  A>  &c.  $  .  Mirth  and  pleasure,  gaiety,  &c. 
to  the  native,  who  mixes  in  female  society,  falls  in  love,  and 
may  marry,  if  of  proper  age,  &c.  Also  the  birth  of  chil- 
dren and  their  marriage  when  of  age.  Prosperity  in  the 
fiimily,  new  female  friends,  benefits  by  females,  and  gene- 
ral success;  the  going  into  new  houses,  buying  fiimi- 
tore,  &c. 

Midheaven  Q  ^,  &c.  $ .     Scandal  and  disgrace  by  means  of 

*  The  Duke  of  Wellington  received  his  dukedom  under  M.  C.  D  0. 


480  iJPPBNBIX. 

females,  unfortonate  wooings,  jealoosyy  contention,  and  dt* 
loflion  by  women.  It  shews  loss  of  estate  and  squandering 
of  property ;  also  a  separation,  &c.  from  a  wife,  and  some- 
times the  death  or  misfortune  of  a  wife  or  sister,  mother, 
&c.  If  marriage  occur,  it  is  rash  and  unhappy.  To  a 
king  scandal  about  mistresses,  &c, 

Midheaven  (5  •)(•  A,  &c.  $  ,  Preferment  and  credit  by  learn- 
ing or  literary  productions.  Much  actire  business,  especi- 
ally with  accounts,  lawyers,  booksellers,  merchandize,  &c. : 
also  the  study  of  languages,  pubUc  speaking,  &c.  Youths 
go  out  in  the  world,  young  men  set  up  in  business,  take 
degrees,  &c.  It  brings  new  employments,  joumies,  pro- 
fit by  writings,  &c.  But  if  $  be  weak  or  afflicted,  the  con- 
junction may  give  scandal*  libels,  informations,  &c.  against 
the  native. 

Midheaven  (j  })  •  This,  says  Lilly,  '*  argues  an  unquiet  and 
busy  time,  afflicted  with  variety  of  matter  and  action,  both 
in  body  and  mind ;  a  troublesome  and  queasy  time,  now 
well,  now  ill,  fdU  of  business ;  sometimes  getting,  otherwise 
losing."  All  depends  on  the  strength  of  ])  at  birth.  If 
she  be  strong,  it  benefits  greatly,  bringing  some  new  occu- 
pation of  a  public  nature ;  offlce,  trade,  or  dignity,  &c. ; 
also  joumies  and  sea  voyages,  the  latter  especially,  if  ])  be 
in  watery  signs.  In  a  male  nativity  it  promises  marriage 
or  female  connexion  and  benefits  by  females. 

Midheaven  ^  A»  &c.  ]) .  Increase  of  fortune,  fsme,  and 
estimation,  especially  among  the  people  :  gifts  and  benefits 
by  ladies.  Prosperity  in  the  native's  offlce  of  employment. 
A  long  sea  voyage,  &c.,  and  sometimes  pubHc  command, 
&c.,  according  to  the  native's  rank  in  life.  Changes  and 
general  prosperity.  With  a  male,  marriage.  Birth  of  chil- 
dren, male  or  female,  as  the  ])  may  be  aspected*  Family 
advancement,  &c. 


APPElffDIX.  481 

Midheaoen  a>  (f »  &c.  ]).  Public  disesteexn,  loss  of  office 
and  good  name ;  expense  and  waste  of  property  by  low  or 
bad  women ;  danger  to  the  wife>  mother,  daughter,  &c. 
Quarrels  in  the  family,  separations,  &c.  Punishment  by 
the  law,  sentence  by  a  judge,  &c.  for  offences.  The  great- 
ness of  the  evil  depends  on  the  ])  ^s  aspects  and  the  sign 
she  occupies ;  fixed  signs  make  it  durable. 

The  O  cJ,  D,  <f,&c.  y-i.  If  the  ©  be  hyleg,  danger  of 
severe  und  fktal  illness.  Much  weakness  of  body,  colds, 
melancholy,  chronic  diseases,  especially  in  the  head,  heart, 
back,  and  stomach,  or  other  parts,  according  to  the  sign  h 
is  in  at  birth ;  the  eyes  are  likely  to  suffer.  Danger  of  falls 
from  buildings,  of  being  crushed,  &c.  Also  the  native's 
father  suffers,  and  may  die.  Much  trouble  by  saturnine 
persons,  especially  such  as  are  in  power^  noblemen,  land- 
lords, &c.  Dangers  in  travelling,  loss  by  storms,  shipwreck, 
&c.  Separation  of  the  native^s  parents,  destruction  to  his 
fame  and  credit,  loss  of  business  and  good  name,  &c.  He 
is  robbed  and  cheated  by  servants,  tenants,  &c.  and  is  full 
of  heavy  thoughts,  and  suffers  much  vexation,  and  may  be 
tempted  to  commit  suicide.  Envy  and  malice  are  active 
against  the  native.  If  an  ecHpse  happen  at  the  time  on 
the  place  of  the  (5,  the  effect  is  violent,  and  generally  of  a 
public  nature.     To  a  king,  defeat,  &c. 

The  O  •)(-,  A9  &c.  ^  .  Some  marks  of  esteem  from  an  aged 
gentleman  or  person  in  power,  &c.   The  native  is  preferred, 

;  and  manages  his  affairs  prosperously,  receiving,  honour, 
gifts,  legacies,  &c.  It  inclines  to  gravity  and  severity,  labo- 
rious studies  or  works.  It  imports  wealth  by  husbandry, 
architecture,  or  some  inheritance.  The  native  succeeds 
with  elderly  persons  and  in  all  matters  under  the  influence 
of  Saturn.* 

*  For  these  see  page  37  of  "  Lilly's  Introduction/' 


482  APP£in)ix. 

The  O  cS,  ^,  At  &c.  11 .  Health  of  body,  peace  of  mind, 
increase  of  wealth  and  enjoyment  of  the  goods  of  fortune ; 
preferment,  office,  dignity,  employment,  &c.,  according  to 
the  native's  situation  in  life.  Church  preferment,  benefit 
by  lawyers,  mi^trates,  merchants,  &c.  To  a  king  it  denotes 
peace  and  tranquillity,  commerce  flounshing ;  yet  the  clergy 
grasping  at  power,  &c.  The  native  may  have  a  son  bom, 
or  preferred,  &c. 

The  O  D  (f  >  &c.  7/ .  The  native  suffers  by  lawyers,  magis- 
trates, clergymen,  and  professors  of  religion,  who  cause 
him  expenses  ;  yet  he  usually  overcomes,  and  recovers  all. 
To  a  king  it  shews  a  discontented  dergj  and  nobility, 
breach  of  the  laws  and  privil^es  of  the  realm,  mercantile 
sufferings,  injury  to  bankers,  &c. 

The  0  d,  D*  <f  j&c*  (?•  Acute  diseases,  fevers,  accidents 
by  fire,  iron,  or  hot  water,  &c.  also  bites  of  dogs,  kicks  by 
horses,  &c.,  according  to  the  sign  (J^  is  in.  In  a  martial 
nativity,  the  d  gives  preferment.  In  wat»y  signs  these 
directions  denote  fluxes,  and  in  all  cases  some  loss  of  blood. 
The  native  is  rash  and  violent,  he  does  nothing  prudently ; 
let  him,  therefore,  beware  of  disputes  with  superiors  and 
men  of  rank,  and  let  him  avoid  any  new  work,  for  he  will 
have  no  success.  Let  him  shun  quarrels  and  the  company 
of  soldiers,  especially  if  0  be  hyleg ;  also  let  him  beware 
of  fevers  and  inflammation,  and  live  temperately. 

The  0  •)(•  A»  &c.  ($ .  These  bring  martial  friends  and  prefer- 
ment ;  also  an  inclination  to  shoot,  hunt,  ride,  &c.  more 
than  formerly.  Soldiers  act  daringly  and  meet  promotion. 
It  causes  a  journey,  and  ''much  trotting  and  trudging  from 
one  place  to  another." 

The  0  (j,  •)(•,  Ay  &c.  $ .  Stirs  up  a  desire  for  music,  plays, 
and  merriment ;  also  all  kinds  of  $  pleasures.  The  native 
makes  love,  and  spends  his  time  and  money  among  the 


appeitdh.  483 

ladies.  K  $  be  weak,  the  d  causes  unlawful  affections. 
The  body  is  now  healthy,  and  mind  cheerful ;  all  things 
succeed,  the  estate  is  increased,  female  children  bom,  and 
the  native  respected.     In  female  nativities,  marriage. 

The  O  D,  <f  ^  &c.  ?  .  A  barren  time,  no  issue.  The  native 
given  to  impure  conduct  and  sordid  actions.  He  incurs 
discredit  and  scandal.  If  Q  be  hyleg,  he  suffers  $  diseases 
according  to  the  sign  $  is  in  at  birth.  He  has  differences 
with  females,  is  refused  marriage,  quarrels  with  his  wife, 
his  daughter  elopes,  &c. 

The  O  d,  •)(•,  A,  &c.  ? .  Much  active  business  and  incli- 
nation to  literary  things  and  persons.  Gain  by  literature, 
or  dealing  in  books,  new  employments,  &c.  Occupied  with 
accounts  and  writings.  He  gains  fame  thereby,  or  by 
some  invention,  if  §  I'e  strong.  It  brings  an  inclination 
to  travel,  and  benefits  by  young  persons.  Also  the  (j 
brings  controversies  and  disputes,  lawsuits,  &c.,  or  preju- 
dice by  false  witnesses  or  lies  being  spoken,  &c.  of  the 
native  ;  and  if  ©  be  hyleg,  serious  diseases,  hurts,  &c.  ac- 
cording as  5  is  aspected.  He  is  generally  changeable  in 
his  fancy,  and  unsettled  in  his  studies. 

The  O  Dj  <f »  &c.  5«  Accusations  and  suits  against  the 
native,  or  he  may  be  guilty  of  some  deceit  or  knavery,  and 
be  thereby  much  disgraced.  He  suffers  by  forgery  and 
fraud,  bad  bills,  &c.  and  unsuccessful  joumies ;  and  is 
greatly  annoyed  by  lawyers  and  young  persons.  His  mind 
is  afflicted,  and  he  loses  his  employment,  &c.,  probably  by 
decision  of  a  court  against  him.  Young  persons  run  away 
from  their  employers,  are  rusticated  from  college,  &c.  It 
gives  an  averseness  from  learning,  and  the  native  is  often 
unjustly  aspersed.  His  health  suffers  according  to  the 
sign  $  is  in,  and  the  planets  which  aspect  him. 

The  O  cJ    J  •     This  impairs  the  health,  brings  humours,  &c. 

I  I 


484  APPENDIX. 

in  the  body,  pains  in  the  head,  weak  eyes,  blindness,  &c. 
The  native  is  unsettled,  travels,  removes,  wastes  his  pro- 
perty  by  idle  courses  and  improvidence.  The  D  being 
strong,  it  gives  preferment,  and  may  give  marriage  \  but 
the  wife  will  be  proud  and  imperious,  striving  for  mastery. 

The  0  •)(•>  A,  &c.  J .  Favour  and  friendship  of  powerful 
persons,  rich  ladies,  &c.  who  employ  the  native,  or  benefit 
him  by  preferment,  &c.  It  gives  joumies  of  a  profitable 
and  honourable  kind,  and  public  employments.  He  is 
much  occupied  with  females,  and  may  marry  a  rich  wife 
if  ])  be  strong.  It  increases  his  friends,  and  may  give  the 
birth  of  children  or  their  settlement  in  life  to  the  native's 
content. 

The  0  n>  <?,  &c.  }) .  An  unhappy  time,  full  of  losses  and 
crosses ;  many  powerful  men  are  provoked  against  the 
native.  He  wrangles  with  his  wife,  and  may  separate ; 
qnarreb  in  the  family  occur.  His  parents  separate,  his 
children  die  or  act  amiss.  The  native  lives  in  temperately, 
mixes  with  low  company,  loose  women,  &c. ;  and  has  ill 
health.  If  ])  be  hyleg,  he  suffers  grievous  diseases,  ac- 
cording to  the  sign  the  ©  is  in.  It  produces  fevers,  sore 
eyes,  and  blindness,  the  small-pox,  measles,  worms,  &c.  It 
lowers  the  native's  credit  and  character,  and  renders  him 
unpopular. 

The  ])  d  D »  <? »  &c.  ^  .  Many  chronic,  cold,  and  moist 
diseases  arise,  with  humours  abounding,  and  general  ill 
health.  If  ])  be  hyleg,  it  gives  agues  and  low  fevers,  palsy, 
dropsy,  coughs,  and  influenza,  gout,  and  apoplexy,  &c.  all 
lingering  diseases,  according  to  the  nature  of  fj ,  and  the 
sign  he  occupies.  These  directions  bring  mental  troubles 
and  afflictions,  fears  and  anxieties ;  also  loss  of  property 
and  aspersions  of  character  by  low  vulgar  people  and  the 
mob.     He  quarrels  with  female  relations,  loses  by  the  sea 


APPENDIX.  485 

or  seamen^  becomes  bankrupt  or  insolvent,  &c.  It  gives 
death  of  wife  or  children,  mother,  &c. 

The  ])•)(•,  A >  &c.  ^  .  Gifts  and  rewards  from  elderly  per- 
sons, especially  females,  Respect  from  the  lower  classes, 
much  popularity,  &c.,  friendship  of  saturnine  persons, 
benefits  by  deaUng  in  saturnine  commodities,  as  lead, 
wool,  &c.,  and  by  buildings,  farming,  &c. :  also  legacies. 

The  2)  d^  "X**  A,  &c.  71 .  Health,  honour,  and  wealth,  occur 
according  to  the  situation  in  life  of  the  native.  Prosperity 
and  success  in  journies  and  speculations  ;  injury  to  his  ene- 
mies. Office,  employment,  command,  new  business,  &c. 
University  degrees  or  law  preferments,  &c.  Many  friends. 
To  kings,  peace,  floun^hing  revenues,  &c. 

The  ])  D ,  <f ,  &c.  1/ .  Difficulties  in  his  employment ;  law- 
yers, and  rehgious  people,  magistrates,  &c.  annoy  him ; 
losses  of  property  by  waste  and  extravagance.  By  his  own 
virtue  and  exertions  he  may,  however,  overcome  all  attempts 
against  him,  and  those  who  were  his  enemies  will  become 
bis  friends.  He  may  be  likely  to  quarrel  with  his  landlord 
or  some  petty  lawyer  or  churchman,  or  about  church 
matters ;  yet  no  lasting  evil  need  be  apprehended.  The 
blood  becomes  corrupt,  and  hence  diseases  of  the  hver,  &c. 

The  })  d,  n»  <f ,  &c.  (J.  Abimdance  of  sorrows,  accidents, 
and  misfortunes.  Imprisonment,  loss  of  property,  thefts, 
squandering  on  the  part  of  his  wife,  &c.  Active  enemies 
rise  against  him,  and  he  suffers  strange  anxieties.  He  has 
diseases  according  to  the  sign  ^  is  in,  and  accidents.  He 
is  in  danger  of  death,  if  J  be  hyleg,  by  fire,  cuts,  wounds, 
bites,  kicks,  or  gunshot,  &c.,  and,  if  $  throw  an  ill  aspect, 
by  poison  or  treachery  of  females.  He  is  choleric  and 
quarrelsome,  very  much  inclined  to  bear  arms,  or  associate 
with  martial  men  ;  and  he  becomes  addicted  to  vices  ac- 
cording to  the  sign  (J"  is  in  :   if  in  the  house  of   ^ ,  he  is 


4g6  APPENDIX. 

dogged ;  if  that  of  7/,  he  becomes  hypocritical;  that  of 
O,  proud  and  haughty  ;  his  own  house,  very  quarrelsome  ; 
that  of  ? ,  loose ;  that  of  5 ,  fraudulent ;  that  of  )) ,  he  is 
unsettled,  &c.  If  ^  be  aspected  by  f?  or  ©,  and  he  in  Q, 
especially  near  asselli,  he  may  die  of  pestilence  or  fire.  He 
receives  disdain  and  insults  by  women.  K  he  have  a  good 
wife,  she  may  die.  It  causes  injuries  to  the  face  or  eyes, 
also  the  small-pox,  stone,  gravel,  and  gonorrhea,  &c.  If  he 
marry  under  the  d>^^  ^  ^^T  unfortunate.  To  a  king, 
war  and  bloodshed,  losses,  &c. 

The  ])  •)(•,  A,  &c.  cJ.  It  gives  a  desire  to  martial  and 
manly  exercises,  as  riding,  shooting,  &c.,  and  the  native 
takes  delight  in  horses,  the  company  of  military  men,  &c., 
and  warlike  af&urs.  Preferment  and  profit,  birth  of  a  son ; 
or,  if  single,  he  may  marry.  Yet  he  may  expect  losses  by 
women,  and  by  deahng  in  horses,  unless  ^  be  well  aspected. 
If  (J  be  weak,  and  the  nativity  denote  it,  he  takes  to  drink- 
ing, gaming,  or  loose  conduct.  To  a  king  it  denotes  increase 
of  the  army,  and  if  at  war,  great  batties,  victories,  &c. 

The  ])  d  Q'  ^*  causes  fevers  and  affections  to  the  eyes,  &c. 
and,  if  the  J  be  hyleg,  it  may  cause  death.  Much  trouble 
of  mind,  many  mutations  in  his  affairs  and  expectations, 
reverses,  &c.  In  many  cases  it  denotes  marriage.  To 
merchants,  &c.  good  trade,  yet  some  slur  on  their  credit. 
It  causes  generally  some  great  change  in  the  life  and  affedrs 
of  the  native ;  if  ©  be  strong  and  fortunate,  beneficial ;  if 
otherwise,  the  reverse. 

The  J)  •)(•,  A>  &c.  0.  Profitable  and  honourable  friends, 
especially  among  females  of  rank,  &c. ;  he  becomes  popular, 
receives  some  office  or  employment.  Joumies  or  voyages 
beyond  sea,  especially  if  it  fall  in  the  9th  house  and  in  a 
watery  sign  ;  much  gain  thereby.  The  native  should  exert 
himself  under  this  influence  to  rise  in  life.     He  is  strongly 


Arpj:]SDiic.  487 

inclined  to  marry,  and  if  he  do,  it  is  prosperous.  If 
married,  he  may  expect  a  child,  unless  0  be  afficted.  To 
merchants,  &c.  it  brings  prosperous  trade.  To  a  king  re- 
newal of  leagues,  victory,  honourable  peace,  &c. 

The  ]),  D  <f»  &c.  ©.  Extreme  danger  and  affliction  of 
body  and  mind.  It  converts  the  love  of  some  female  to 
hatred.  It  causes  injury  by  popular  tumults,  &c.,  and  the 
dissembling  friendship  of  some  man  of  rank,  by  which  the 
native  suffers.  If  the  aspect  fall  near  nebulous  stars,  there 
is  danger  of  hurts  or  disease  to  the  eyes.  It  produces 
fevers,  coughs,  colics,  fluxes,  &c.  "  according  to  the  nature 
of  the  sign  and  house  the  significator  and  promittor  are 
in  "  says  Lilly.  To  a  nobleman  it  shews  popular  dislike  ; 
to  a  farmer  an  ill  landlord,  who  wrongs  him  ;  to  a  poor 
man  danger  of  the  treadmill,  &c.  It  brings  contentions 
and  quarrels,  and  oppressions  from  men  in  power ;  and  is 
an  ill  time  to  speculate.  It  generally  endures  Ave  or  six 
months. 

Th®  1>  d  J  •)(•>  A,  &c.  ? .  A  pleasant  and  happy  period. 
The  native  inchnes  to  be  merry  and  jocund,  fond  of  enter- 
tainment, and  addicted  to  pleasure,  &c.,  which  will  be 
legitimate  or  otherwise,  as  ?  is  weU  or  ill  aspected.  He 
receives  gifts  and  favours  from  females  ;  is  inclined  to  love- 
making  and  marriage,  and  free  from  all  care.  To  the 
married  it  denotes  children,  chiefly  females,  and  also  the 
marriage  and  settlement  of  children.  To  merchants  good 
success,  to  farmers  profit  by  $  matters,  small  cattle, 
poultry,  &c.  Generally  happy  marriage,  obedient  children, 
domestic  felicity,  and  prosperity  by  means  of  females.  To 
kings  peace  and  new  aUies,  &c. 

The  ))  D,  <f ,  &c.  ?  .  Much  trouble  by  wandering  affections, 
illicit  amours,  &c.,  scandal  and  infamy  in  consequence. 
Many  crosses  and  controversies  through  women.     Waste  of 


488  APPENDIX. 

estate  by  improvidence  aud  intemperance.  If  the  native 
marry  under  these  directions,  it  is  unhappy,  and  to  one 
whom  he  loves  not,  arid  who  will  not  be  obedient  and  affec-' 
tionate.  It  produces^  diseases;  and,  in  children,  if  $ 
be  in  a  watery  sign  and  afflicted,  measles,  small-pox,  &c. ; 
in  women  irregolar  and  abundant  courses,  diseases  of  the 
matrix,  &c. 

The  J  d  5  •  This  direction  brings  joumies  or  voyages,  the 
latter  if  $  be  in  s .  It  engages  him  in  causes  and  contro- 
versies sometimes ;  brings  him  much  active  business ;  he 
is  very  energetic,  and  given  to  study,  vniting,  pubhc 
speaking,  &c.  To  a  merchant  much  business,  joumies, 
&c. ;  to  a  factor  many  accounts.  *  To  a  king  foreign 
news,  active  exertions  among  his  allies ;  he  sends  ambas- 
sadors, &c. 

The  J  •)(•,  A,  &c.  5  •  Good  speed  and  success  to  the  native 
in  his  employments.  He  is  inclined  to  read,  write,  and 
pursue  accounts,  mathematical  studies,  &c.  It  gives  a  de- 
light in  music  or  mechanical  devices,  a  propensity  to  travel 
and  make  changes  in  his  abode.  He  has  the  friendship  of 
some  lady  of  rank,  &c.,  or  receives  an  employment,  literary 
or  as  a  messenger,  traveller,  ambassador,  &c.  He  has  plea- 
sure in  his  children,  may  have  a  child  bom,  or  married, 
apprenticed,  &c.  He  succeeds  in  law,  or  with  young 
people. 

The  ])  D,  <f ,  &c.  5  .  An  averseness  from  study,  &c.  is 
felt.  He  is  frowned  on  by  the  vulgar,  suffers  by  popular 
tumult,  &c.,  questioned  for  some  fraud  or  forgery,  impri- 
soned, banished,  sentenced  to  death,  &c.,  according  as  $ 
is  aspected  at  birth.     Many  scandals,  libels,  false  charges, 

*  All  depends  on  how  $  is  aspected ;  as,  if  afflicted,  he  gives  trouble 
by  fraud,  theft,  &c. ;  also  sickness  and  accidents,  according  to  the  sign. 


APPENDIX.  489 

swindling  and  fraudulent  attempts  by  cuiining  attorneys, 
&e.  against  the  native.  Injuries  by  law  and  lawyers,  thefts, 
&c.  He  is  annoyed  by  his  children,  who  are  unfortunate 
and  impudent ;  and  by  young  persons  generally.  He  may 
lose  a  child.  There  is  sometimes  danger  of  delirium  and 
madness. 

The  O  to  his  own  S  -Jf  or  -Jf  produces  peace  and  feU- 
city,  profit,  and  renown,  &c.,  the  ^  chiefly.  But  it 
should  fall  in  a  good  house.  To  his  own  parallel,  pre- 
ferment, &c. 

The  ©  to  his  own  S  Q  or  D-  Abundance  of  sorrow  and 
misery,  and  many  maladies,  according  to  the  sign  the  ©  is 
in,  and  in  which  the  aspect  falls.  The  n  produces  a  desire 
to  be  dissolved,  that  he  may  be  at  rest. 

The  J  to  her  S  -^  or  ^.  Changes  in  life,  joumies,  &c. 
and  the  friendship  of  females,  benefits,  &c.  by  them.  To 
her  own  parallel,  changes. 

The  D  to  her  own  S  Q  or  n  •  Troubles,  losses,  changes,  and 
the  enmity  of  women  and  the  populace. 

The  Part  of  Fortune. 

The  ®  c^  n,  <f ,  &c.  Tj .  Consumption  of  estate  by  theft, 
gaming,  and  saturnine  persons ;  sometimes  almost  imper- 
ceptibly. 

The  ©  -X**  A,  &c.  >2 .  Increase  of  property  by  aged  per- 
sons, legacies,  &c.,  and  by  buildings,  agriculture,  sea  affairs, 
cattle,  &c. 

The  0  (5,  -X-j  A,  &c.  11.  Gifts,  rewards,  patronage,  jovial 
persons,  success  in  business,  office,  &c. 

The  ©  D,  cf  >  &c.  1/ .  Losses  by  gentlemen  or  churchmen, 
lawsuits^  &c.  Some  falling  off  in  trade  or  income,  dis- 
appointment in  receiving  money.     To  a  king  disputes  about 


490  APPENDIX. 

taxes,  judges,  &c.  This  direction  occurred  with  Queen  Vic- 
toria when  the  Commons  cut  off  ^20,000  a  year  from  her 
intended  husband,  the  Chief  Justice  of  the  Queen's  Bench 
held  the  Parliament  at  bay  and  the  Sheriffs  were  impri- 
soned. 

The  0  •)(•,  A,  &c.  (J .  Wealth  by  martial  persons,  or  by 
buying  arms,  horses,  &c.,  also  by  traffic  in  small  cattle, 
and  by  going  to  sea. 

The®  D,  <f ,  &c.  (J.  Loss  by  thieying  servants,  or  rob- 
bery of  thieves  or  soldiers,  firing  of  houses,  &c.,  or  by  idle 
courses,  quarrels,  lawsuits,  &c. 

The  0  c^  O*  Honourable  disbursements;  the  native  more 
liberal  than  formerly ;  waste  of  estate  and  prodiga- 
lity. 

The  0  •)(•,  A  0«  Profit  and  advantage  by  persons,  of  rank, 
&c, ;  many  friends  above  his  own  rank  in  life ;  profit  but 
expenditure  ;  not  much  saving. 

The  0  D  <f  O  •  Damage  by  lawsuits,  waste  of  property, 
by  the  envy  of  great  persons,  fake  and  scandalous  accusa- 
tions, loss  of  office,  &c. 

The  0  (5  ,-)(•,  A  ? .  Great  gifts  and  benefits  from  ladies 
of  rank ;  freedom  of  expenditure  on  ornaments,  attire,  &c. ; 
merchants  gain  rigidly. 

The  0  D  <f  S  •  Expenses  by  women,  love-making,  jea- 
lousies, &c. ;  much  consumption  of  property  by  extrava- 
gance and  folly. 

The  ©  d  ,-)(•,  A  5  .  Gain  by  bai^ains,  contracts,  accounts, 
learning,  the  law,  &c.  Also  by  degrees  at  the  university, 
by  inventions,  writings,  &c.,  and  by  his  own  exertions  and 
industry.  Also  profit  by  some  inheritance,  or  by  joumies 
or  sea  voyages. 

The  0  a  jf ,  &c.  5  •  The  native  is  cheated  in  accounts,  or 
by  lawyers  or  literary  men,  youths,  &c.      He  loses  by  in- 


APPENDIX.  491 

gemous  conceptions,  false  witnesses,  &c.  His  credit  is 
questioned,  and  he  may  act  foolishly,  and  be  sued  at  law, 
or  lose  by  his  children. 

The  ©  d>  -X"*  A,  &c.  J .  Friendship  and  gain  by  females ; 
much  action  for  and  with  the  common  people,  by  whom 
the  native  profits.  He  may  undertake  long  journeys  or 
voyages^  and  he  wiU  have  fall  employment. 

'Hie  ®  D>  <f  >  &c.  }) .  Losses  by  bargains,  contracts,  &c. 
by  trade  with  the  lower  classes ;  by  sea  voyages  or  sailors. 
Hatred  and  loss  by  some  respectable  female ;  many  law- 
suits and  heavy  debts,  &c. 

N.B.  Directions  to  ^  have  effect  similar  to  $  and  T^  com- 
bined ;  but  events  occur  suddenly  or  in  a  manner  quite 
unexpected.  The  0  or  })  to  Ig[  causes  deaths  of  rela- 
tions* and  strange  conduct,  much  trouble  by  the  press  and 
.  public  bodies.  His  •)(•  or  A  unlooked  for  benefits.  The 
hyleg  afflicted  by  direction  to  ^  gives  sudden  dangers  and 
extraordinary  accidents. 


Final  Observation, — Let  the  student  bear  in  mind,  that 
the  primary  direction  usually  shews  the  general  nature  of  the 
event,  and  the  secondary  direction  its  especial  character,  ac- 
cording as  the  planet  is  situated  in  any  angle  or  house  of  the 
radical  figure.  And  the  effects  on  the  health  will  be  ascer- 
tained by  attention  to  the  "  table  of  diseases  signtfied  by 

THE   PLANETS  IN  THE  DIEPEBElTr  SIGNS  OP  ^THE  ZODIAC,"  for 

which  see  an^e^page  180  of  the  Introduction, 

*  0  par.  f[j[  zod.  in  Queen  Victoria's  nativity  in  September,  caused  the 
death  of  her  aunt,  the  Princess  Augusta,  as  predicted,  page  45  of  my  Al- 
c,  1840. 


492  APPENDIX. 

The  student  should  understand  that,  when  a  direction 
threatens  sickness,  the  planet  importing  it  will  cause  such 
diseases  as  are  herein  mentioned,  according  to  the  sign  he 
is  in. 


THE  END  OF  THE  GEAMMAE  OF  ASTROLOGY. 


TABLES 


TO  BB  USBD  IM 


CALCULATING  NATIVITIES; 

COMPBUIKG 

TABLES   OF   DECLINATION,    RIGHT  ASCENSION, 

ASCENSIONAL  DIFFERENCE,  AND 

POLAR  ELEVATION ; 

ALSO, 

TABLES   OF    HOUSES 

FOR 

LONDON  AND  LIVERPOOL. 


Computed  by 

Z  A  D  K  I  E  L, 

Author  of  the  "  Grammar  of  AMtrology.** 


PREFACE. 


The  following  Tables  are  calculated  according  to 
the  present  obliquity  of  the  ecliptic,  28*  28',  and 
are  adapted  for  persons  who  may  desire  to  calculate 
a  nativity  upon  the  modem  and  improTcd  rules  of 
Astrology,  as  set  forth  in  the  latest  elementary  work 
on  Genethliacal  Science,  the  Gbammab  of  Astbo- 

LOOY. 

The  Table  of  Houses  for  the  latitude  of  London, 
5V  82'  N.,  contains  the  Right  Ascension  of  every 
degree  of  the  zodiac  in  hours,  minutes,  and  seconds. 
The  Tables  of  Houses  for  the  latitude  of  Liverpool, 
58*  28'  N.,  contains  the  Right  Ascension  of  every 
degree  of  the  zodiac  in  degrees  and  minutes  of  a 
degree;  therefore,  by  referring  from  one  to  the 
other  of  these  Tables,  the  student  will  at  once  per- 
ceive what  is  the  Right  Ascension  in  degrees  and 
minutes  of  any  amount  of  time  within  24  hours,  and 
vice  versd.  The  former  of  these  Tables  will  answer 
lor  any  part  of  Ghreat  Britain  which  is  south  of  the 


IT  FREFAOB. 

latitude  of  52  degrees  and  a  half;  and  the  latter 
Table  will  answer  equally  well  for  any  place  between 
Liyerpool  and  the  borders  of  Scotland.  The  im- 
portance of  this  Table,  which  has  cost  the  Author 
great  labour,  as  it  required  the  taking  out  12,600 
logarithms,  will  be  instantly  perceived,  when  it  is 
considered  that  the  longitude  of  the  ascendant  at 
Liverpool  is  sometimes  three  degrees  different  from 
the  longitude  of  the  ascendant  at  London.  The  errors 
that  arose  from  erecting  figures  of  the  heavens  for 
the  northern  parts  of  the  kingdom,  by  means  of  the 
Table  of  Houses  for  London,  must  have  been  very 
great.  Even  in  horary  questions  it  is  very  import- 
ant to  have  the  longitude  of  the  ascending  degree 
correct ;  and  in  nativities  an  error  of  three  degrees 
would  throw  out  a  secondary  direction  of  the  Moon 
to  any  aspect  of  the  ascendant  not  less  than  three 
months;  and  so  create  error  and  confrision  in  tiie 
judgment  of  events.  As,  for  example,  if  the  primary 
directions  were  such  as  to  denote  danger  of  drown- 
ing, and  the  moon  came  to  an  opposition  of  the  as- 
cendant in  the  secondary  direction,  it  might  be  judged 
that  the  greatest  danger  would  be  during  the  week 
when  the  Moon  came  exactly  to  the  opposite  degree 


PBEFACB.  y 

and  minute  of  those  which  were  ascending  at  birth  ; 
but  if  the  ascendant  were  wrong,  even  by  one  degree, 
this  time  could  not  be  ascertained  to  within  a  month. 
To  persons  who  can  erect  a  figure  by  trigonometry, 
it  is  of  less  importance  ;  but  thb  is  seldom  done  for 
horary  questions. 

Tlie  Table  of  Right  Ascensions  contains  only  . 
twelve  pages  instead  <^  twenty-four,  as  usual,  but 
the  extra  expense  of  twelve  additional  pages  is  avoid- 
ed by  this  means  ;  and  it  only  requires  to  pay  strict 
attention  to  the  direction  at  the  head  of  each  page, 
and  either  add  or  subtract  180**,  as  may  be  required; 
thus,  if  the  Right  Ascension  of  10  degrees  of  Scorpio 
with  3  degrees  of  South  latitude  be  required,  learn  by 
the  table  what  is  the  Right  Ascension  of  the  opposite 
point  of  the  zodiac,  viz.  10  degrees  of  Taurue  with 
3  degrees  of  opposite  latitude,  and  then  add  180 
degrees,  and  you  have  the  Right  Ascension  required. 

Thus,  Right  Ascension  of  10*  Taurus  with  3*  North 

latitude 36»  35' 

To  which  add  half  the  circle 180      0 

And  you  have  the  Right  Asc.  of  10*  Scorpio 

witii  8*  South  latitude 216     35 


Tl  FKEFAOE. 

Again,  if  you  require  the  Kight  Asc.  of  5  deg.  of 
Arie9  with  2*  South  latitude,  find  that  of  the  opposite 
point,  yiz.  5  deg.  of  Libra  with  2**  North  latitude ; 
which  is  185'  22'  hy  the  Table  ;  and  by  taking  away 
the  half  circle,  180%  you  have  5«  22*  for  the  Right 
Ascension  you  require. 

The  latitudes  in  these  Tables  are  carried  only  to 
7  degrees,  which  b  the  utmost  any  planet  reaches, 
except  Venus.  When  those  rare  occasions  happen 
in  which  Venus  is  found  with  latitude  exceeding  7 
degrees,  it  will  be  very  easy  to  see  what  difference  of 
Right  Asc.  or  Declination  one  degree  of  latitude 
creates  opposite  the  longitude  of  Venus,  and  then 
compute  the  difference  of  her  Right  Asc.  &c.  As, 
for  example,  if  Venus  be  in  20  degrees  of  Virgo, 
with  8  degrees  and  a  half  of  North  latitude,  and  1 
require  her  Right  Asc,  the  difference  of  Right  Asc. 
between  6  degrees  and  7  degrees  of  North  latitude, 
opposite  20  degrees  of  Virgo,  is  just  24  minutes  of 
a  degree  ;  therefore  to  the  Right  Asc.  under  the  7th 
degree,  which  is  173<»  37',  I  add  24  min.,  and  it 
gives  174*  1'  for  the  Right  Asc.  of  Venus,  with  8 
degrees  of  North  lat.  opposite  20  Virgo ;  and  for  the 
half  degree  I  add  12  min.  more,  and  it  gives  1 74®  13', 


FBEFACE.  Vll 

the  Bight  Asc.  of  Venus  in  20*  Virgo  and  8"  30'  North 
latitude ;  and  by  adding  180"*  to  this,  we  have  354"*  13' 
for  the  Eight  Asc.  of  Venus  if  she  had  been  in 
20*  Pisces  with  8»  30'  of  South  latitude. 

On  some  rare  occasions  the  Moon's  declination 
will  exceed  28*^  the  limits  of  our  Table  of  Ascensional 
Difference ;  but  the  difference  between  27''  and  28"* 
being  foimd,  and  the  proportion  allowed  for  the  next 
degree,  it  will  give  the  Asc.  Diff.  of  the  Moon  suffi- 
ciently  near.  For  example,  the  Moon's  declination 
at  noon  on  the  17th  February,  1806,  was  28*  12'; 
required  her  Asc.  Diff.  in  latitude  55"*  ?  The  differ- 
ence between  27"  and  28"  of  declination  is  2"  43'  of 
Asc.  Diff.  in  that  high  latitude ;  then  say,  if  one  de- 
gree gives  2"  43'  =  163  minutes,  what  will  12  minutes 
give  ?  Answer,  33  minutes :  which,  added,  to  49*  24', 
the  Asc.  Diff.  for  28"  declination,  gives  the  Asc.  Diff. 
required,  viz.  49"  67'. 

Tlie  great  interest  evinced  in  the  examination  of 
Astrology  in  the  present  age,  as  shewn  by  the  ready 
sale  of  a  large  edition  of  the  '^  Grammar  of  Astro- 
logy,"  has  induced  the  Author  to  put  forth  these 
Tables ;  by  which  means  still  farther  facility  is  offered 


TUl  PBSFACS. 

to  those  persons  whose  sense  of  the  value  <^  expe- 
rience  will  induce  them  to  place  mwe  reliance  on  one 
fact  than  on  a  hundred  crude  arguments,  or  a  thou- 
sand idle  assertions.  Feeling  that  the  question  oi 
the  truth  or  falsehood  of  Astrology  has  never  been 
discussed  in  the  present  day  by  such  arguments  as 
science  would  acknowledge,  the  Author  has  no  hesi- 
tation in  declaring,  that  ignorance  of  its  principles 
and  practice  is  the  chief  foundation  of  the  prejudice 
which  exists  against  the  science  ;  and  he  trusts  that 
these  Tables  will  assist  to  overcome  much  of  that 
ignorance,  and  thereby  overthrow  one  obstacle  in  the 
path  of  truth. 


Liverpoolf 
July  17,  1834. 


9 


TABLE  OF  HOUSES  FOR  LONDON. 
Lat,  51«  32'. 


Bight  Ascen. 

10 

11 

12 

Ascend. 

2  , 

3 

of 

Meridiui. 

Ari$9, 

Tmtnu, 

Caiuier. 

Leo. 

Virgo, 

H.   M.  B. 

0 

0 

0 

0    , 

0 

0 

0   0   0 

0 

9 

22 

26  36 

12 

3 

0   3  40 

1 

10 

23 

27  17 

13 

3 

0   7  20 

2 

11 

24 

27  56 

14 

4 

0  11   0 

3 

12 

25 

28  42 

15 

5 

0  14  41 

4 

13 

25 

29  17 

15 

6 

0  18  21 

5 

14 

26 

29  55 

16 

7 

0  22   2 

6 

15 

27 

05^34 

17 

8 

0  25  42 

7 

16 

28 

1  14 

18 

8 

0  29  23 

8 

17 

29 

1  55 

18 

9 

0  33   4 

9 

18 

25 

2  33 

19 

10 

0  36  45 

10 

19 

1 

3  14 

20 

11 

0  40  26 

11 

20 

1 

3  54 

20 

12 

0  44   8 

12 

22 

2 

4  33 

21 

13 

0  47  50 

13 

23 

3 

5  12 

22 

14 

0  51  32 

14 

24 

4 

5  52 

23 

15 

0  55  14 

15 

25 

5 

6  30 

23 

15 

0  58   5 

16 

26 

6 

7   9 

24 

16 

1   2  40 

17 

27 

6 

7  50 

25 

17 

1   6  23 

18 

28 

7 

8  30 

26 

18 

1  10   7 

19 

29 

8 

9   9 

26 

19 

1  13  51 

20 

n 

9 

9  48 

27 

19 

1  17  35 

21 

1 

10 

10  29 

28 

20 

1  21  20 

22 

2 

10 

11   7 

28 

21 

1  25   6 

23 

3 

11 

11  48 

29 

22 

1  28  52 

24 

4 

12 

]2  28 

m 

23 

1  32  38 

25 

5 

13 

13   8 

1 

24 

1  36  25 

26 

6 

14 

13  48 

1 

25 

1  40  12 

27 

7 

14 

14  28 

2 

25 

1  44   0 

28 

7 

15 

15   8 

3 

26 

1  47  48 

29 

8 

16 

15  47 

4 

27 

1  51  37 

30 

9 

17 

16  27 

4 

28 

10 


TABLE  OF  HOUSES  FOR  LONDON. 
Lat.  51»  32*. 


Rifl^tAfcen. 

10 

11 

12 

ABcend. 

2 

3 

of 

Meridian. 

AriM. 

Gemini, 

Camcer. 

Leo, 

Virffo, 

Vkyo. 

U.  M.   ■. 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

1  51  37 

0 

9 

17 

16  28 

4 

28 

1  55  27 

1 

10 

18 

17   8 

5 

29 

1  59  17 

2 

11 

19 

17  48 

6 

:S^ 

2   S   8 

3 

12 

19 

18  27 

7 

1 

2   6  59 

4 

13 

20 

19   9 

8 

2 

2  10  5] 

5 

14 

21 

19  49 

9 

2 

2  U  44 

6 

15 

22 

20  29 

9 

3 

2  18  37 

7 

16 

22 

21  10 

10 

4 

2  22  31 

8 

17 

23 

21  52 

11 

5 

2  26  25 

9 

18 

24 

22  32 

11 

6 

2  30  20 

10 

19 

25 

23  14 

12 

7 

2  34  16 

11 

20 

25 

23  55 

13 

8 

2  38  13 

12 

21 

26 

24  36 

14 

9 

2  42  10 

13 

22 

27 

25  17 

15 

10 

2  46   8 

14 

23 

28 

25  58 

15 

11 

2  50   7 

15 

24 

29 

26  40 

16 

12 

2  54   7 

16 

25 

29 

27  22 

17 

12 

2  58   7 

17 

26 

SI 

28   4 

18 

13 

3   2   8 

18 

26 

I 

28  45 

18 

14 

3   6   9 

19 

27 

2 

29  28 

19 

15 

3  10  12 

20 

28 

3 

0n»12 

20 

16 

3  14  15 

21 

29 

3 

0  54 

21 

17 

3  18  19 

22 

S 

4 

1  36 

22 

18 

3  22  23 

23 

1 

5 

2  20 

22 

19 

3  26  29 

24 

2 

6 

3   1 

23 

20 

3  30  35 

25 

3 

7 

3  45 

24 

21 

3  34  41 

26 

4 

7 

4  28 

25 

22 

3  38  49 

27 

5 

8 

5  11 

26 

23 

3  42  57 

28 

6 

9 

5  54 

27 

24 

3  47   6 

29 

7 

10 

6  29 

27 

25 

3  51  15 

30 

8 

11 

7  21 

28 

25 

11 

TABLE  OF  HOUSES  FOR  LONDON. 
Lat.  510  32'. 


Right  Ascen. 

10 

11 

12 

Ascend. 

2 

3 

of 
Meridian. 

G0MM. 

Cancer, 

Leo, 

Virgo, 

Virgo, 

lAbra, 

H.  M.   B. 

0 

0 

0 

0   « 

0 

0 

3  51  15 

0 

8 

11 

7  21 

28 

25 

3  55  25 

1 

9 

12 

8   5 

29 

26 

3  59  36 

2 

10 

12 

8  49 

^ 

27 

4   3  48 

3 

10 

13 

9  33 

\ 

28 

4   8   0 

4 

11 

14 

10  16 

2 

29 

4  12  13 

5 

12 

15 

11   2 

2 

m 

4  16  26 

6 

13 

16 

11  46 

3 

1 

4  20  40 

7 

14 

17 

12  30 

4 

2 

4  24  55 

8 

15 

17 

13  15 

5 

3 

4  29  10 

9 

16 

18 

14   0 

6 

4 

4  33  26 

10 

17 

19 

14  45 

7 

5 

4  37  42 

11 

18 

20 

15  30 

8 

6 

4  41  59 

12 

19 

21 

16  15 

8 

7 

4  46  16 

IS 

20 

21 

17   0 

9 

8 

4  50  34 

14 

21 

22 

17  45 

10 

9 

4  54  52 

15 

22 

23 

18  30 

11 

10 

4  59  10 

16 

23 

24 

19  16 

12 

11 

5   3  29 

17 

24 

25 

20   4 

13 

12 

5   7  49 

18 

25 

26 

20  49 

14 

13 

5  12   9 

19 

25 

27 

21  35 

14 

14 

5  16  29 

20 

26 

28 

22  20 

15 

14 

5  20  49 

21 

27 

28 

23   6 

16 

15 

5  25   9 

22 

28 

29 

23  51 

17 

16 

5  29  30 

23 

29 

iW 

24  37 

18 

17 

5  33  51 

24 

Q 

1 

25  25 

19 

18 

5  38  12 

25 

1 

2 

26   9 

20 

19 

5  42  34 

26 

2 

3 

26  55 

21 

20 

5  46  55 

27 

3 

4 

27  41 

21 

21- 

5  51  17 

28 

4 

4 

28  27 

22 

22 

5  55  38 

29 

5 

5 

29  13 

23 

23 

6   0   0 

30 

6 

6 

30   0 

24 

24 

12 


TABLE  OF  HOUSES  FOR  LONDON. 
Lat.  5r  32'/ 


Right  Aicen. 

10 

11 

12 

Ascend. 

2 

3 

of 

Meridian. 

Caneer. 

Leo. 

Virffo, 

Ubra. 

Libra, 

SearpkK 

H.   M.  8. 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

6   0   0 

0 

6 

6 

0  d 

24 

24 

6   4  22 

1 

7 

7 

0  47 

25 

25 

6   8  43 

2 

8 

8 

1  33 

26 

26' 

6  13   5 

3 

9 

9 

2  19 

27 

27 

6  17  26 

4 

10 

10 

3   5 

27 

28 

6  21  48 

5 

11 

10 

3  51 

28 

29 

6  26   9 

6 

12 

11 

4  27 

29 

t 

6  30  30 

7 

13 

12 

5  23 

m 

1 

6  34  51 

8 

14 

13 

6   9 

1 

2 

6  39  11 

9 

15 

14 

6  55 

2 

3 

6  43  SI 

10 

16 

15 

7  40 

2 

4 

6  47  51 

11 

16 

16 

8  26 

3 

4 

6  52  11 

12 

17 

16 

9  12 

4 

5 

6  56  31 

13 

18 

17 

9  58 

5 

6 

7   0  50 

14 

19 

18 

10  41 

6 

7 

7   5   8 

15 

20 

19 

11  28 

7 

8 

7   9  26 

16 

21 

20 

12  14 

8 

9 

7  13  44 

17 

22 

21 

12  59 

8 

10 

7  18   1 

18 

23 

22 

13  46 

9 

11 

7  22  18 

19 

24 

22 

14  30 

10 

12 

7  26  34 

20 

25 

23 

15  15 

11 

13 

1    30  50 

21 

^6 

24 

15  59 

l2 

14 

7  35   5 

32 

27 

25 

16  45 

13 

15 

7  39  20 

23 

28 

26 

17  30 

13 

16 

7  43  34 

24 

29 

27 

]8  15 

14 

17 

7  47  47 

25 

^ 

28 

18  59 

15 

18 

7  52   0 

26 

I 

28 

19  43 

16 

19 

7  56  12 

27 

2 

29 

20  27 

17 

20 

8   0  24 

28 

3 

£k 

21  11 

18 

20 

8   4  35 

29 

4 

1 

21  56 

18 

21 

8   8  45 

30 

5 

2 

22  40 

19 

22 

Jd 


TABLE  OF  HOUSES  FOR  LONDON. 
Lax.  51»  32'. 


Iti^tAscen. 

10 

11 

12 

Ascend. 

2 

3 

of 
Meridian. 

Leo. 

Mrgo, 

lAbra, 

Hbr^, 

SecrpiOt 

SagUt. 

H.       M.     S. 

0 

0 

0 

0         , 

0 

0 

8      8    45 

0 

5 

2 

22    40 

19 

22 

8    12    54 

1 

5 

3 

23    24 

20 

23 

8    17      3 

2 

6 

3 

24      7 

21 

24 

8    21    11 

3 

7 

4 

24    50 

22 

25 

8    25    19 

4 

8 

5 

25    34 

23 

26 

8    29    26 

5 

9 

6 

26     18 

23 

27 

8    33    31 

6 

10 

7 

27      0 

24 

28 

8    37    37 

7 

11 

8 

27    44 

25 

29 

8    41    41 

8 

12 

8 

28    25 

26 

Vf 

8    45    45 

9 

13 

9 

29      8 

27 

1 

8    49    48 

10 

14 

10 

29    50 

27 

2 

8    53    51 

11 

15 

11 

0ni32 

28 

3 

8    57    52 

12 

16 

12 

1     15 

29 

4 

9      1    53 

13 

17 

12 

1     58 

/ 

4 

9      5    53 

14 

18 

13 

2    39 

1 

5 

9      9    53 

15 

18 

14 

3    21 

2 

6 

9    13    52 

16 

19 

15 

4      3 

2 

7 

9    17    50 

17 

20 

16 

4    44 

3 

8 

9    21     47 

18 

21 

16 

5    24 

4 

9 

9    25    44 

19 

22 

17 

6      7 

5 

10 

9    29    40 

20 

23 

18 

6    48 

5 

11 

9    33    35 

21 

24 

19 

7    29 

6 

12 

9    37    29 

22 

25 

19 

8      9 

7 

13 

9    41    23 

-  23 

26 

20 

8    50 

8 

14 

9    45    16 

24 

27 

21 

9    31 

9 

15 

9    49      9 

25 

28 

22 

10    11 

9 

16 

9    53      1 

26 

28 

23 

10    51 

10 

17 

9    56    52 

27 

29 

23 

11    32 

11 

18 

10      0    43 

28 

^ 

24 

12    12 

12 

19 

10      4    33 

29 

1 

25 

12    53 

12 

20 

10      8    23 

30 

2 

26 

13    33 

13 

20 

14 


TABLE  OF  HOUSES  FOR  LONDON. 
Lax.  51*  32'. 


Right  Ascen. 

10 

11 

12 

Ascend. 

2 

3 

of 
Meridian. 

Vhrgo, 

Ubra. 

Lihra, 

Searpio. 

Soffttt. 

C<vric 

H.   M.   S. 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

10   8  23 

0 

2 

26 

13  33 

13 

20 

10  12  12 

1 

3 

26 

14  13 

14 

21 

10  16   0 

2 

4 

27 

14  43 

15 

22 

10  19  48 

S 

5 

28 

15  33 

16 

23 

10  23  35 

4 

5 

29 

16  13 

16 

24 

10  27  22 

5 

6 

29 

16  52 

17 

25 

10  31   8 

6 

7 

m 

17  32 

18 

26 

]0  34  54 

7 

8 

1 

18  13 

19 

27 

10  38  40 

8 

9 

2 

18  51 

20 

28 

10  42  25 

9 

10 

2 

19  31 

20 

29 

10  46   9 

10 

11 

3 

20  11 

21 

»: 

10  49  53 

11 

11 

4 

20  52 

22 

1 

10  53  37 

12 

12 

4 

21  30 

23 

2 

10  27  20 

13 

13 

5 

22   9 

24 

3 

11   I   3 

14 

14 

6 

22  49 

24 

4 

11   4  46 

15 

15 

7 

23  28 

25 

5 

11   8  28 

16 

16 

7 

24   8 

26 

6 

11  12  10 

17 

17 

8 

24  47 

27 

8 

11  15  52 

18 

17 

9 

25  27 

28 

9 

11  19  34 

19 

.  18 

10 

26   5 

29 

10 

11  23  15 

20 

19 

10 

26  45 

30 

11 

11  26  56 

21 

20 

11 

27  26 

yf 

12 

11  30  37 

22 

21 

12 

28   5 

1 

13 

11  34  18 

23 

22 

13 

28  44 

2 

14 

11  37  58 

24 

23 

13 

29  24 

3 

15 

11  41  39 

25 

23 

14 

0^  3 

4 

16 

11  45  19 

26 

24 

15 

0  43 

5 

17 

11  49   0 

27 

25 

15 

1  23 

5 

18 

11  52  40 

28 

26 

16 

2   4 

6 

19 

11  56  20 

29 

26 

17 

2  43 

7 

20 

12   0   0 

30 

27 

17 

3  23 

8 

21 

15 


TABLE  OF  HOUSES  FOR  LONDON 
Lat.  51*  32-. 


Right  Ascen. 

10 

11 

12 

Ascend. 

2 

3 

of 
Meridian. 

IMrm, 

Libra. 

s^ 

Sagitt. 

Coprie. 

Aquar. 

H.   M.  8. 

0 

0 

0 

3  2i 

0 

0 

12   0   0 

0 

27 

17 

8 

21 

12   3  40 

1 

28 

18 

4   4 

9 

22 

12   7  20 

2 

29 

19 

4  45 

10 

24 

12  11   0 

3 

m 

20 

5  25 

11 

25 

12  14  41 

4 

1 

20 

6   7 

12 

26 

12  18  21 

5 

1 

21 

6  48 

13 

27 

12  22   2 

6 

2 

22 

7  29 

14 

28 

12  25  42 

7 

3 

23 

8  10 

15 

29 

12  29  23 

8 

4 

23 

8  51 

16 

X 

12  33   4 

9 

5 

24 

9  33 

17 

2 

12  36  45 

10 

6 

25 

10  15 

18 

3 

12  40  26 

11 

6 

25 

10  57 

19 

4 

12  44   8 

12 

7 

26 

11  40 

20 

5 

12  47  50 

13 

8 

27 

12  22 

21 

6 

12  51  32 

14 

9 

28 

13   4 

22 

7 

12  55  14 

15 

10 

28 

13  47 

23 

9 

12  58  57 

16 

11 

29 

14  30 

24 

10 

13   2  40 

17 

11 

t 

15  15 

25 

11 

13   6  23 

18 

12 

1 

15  59 

26 

12 

13  10   7 

19 

13 

1 

16  44 

27 

13 

13  13  51 

20 

14 

2 

17  28 

28 

15 

13  17  35 

21 

15 

3 

18  13 

29 

16 

13  21  20 

22 

16 

4 

19   0 

m 

17 

13  25   6 

23 

16 

4 

19  44 

I 

18 

13  28  52 

24 

17 

5 

20  31 

2 

20 

13  32  38 

25 

18 

6 

21  19 

4 

21 

13  36  25 

26 

19 

7 

22   6 

5 

22 

13  40  12 

27 

20 

7 

22  54 

6 

23 

13  44   0 

28 

21 

8 

23  42 

7 

25 

13  47  48 

29 

21 

9 

24  31 

8 

26 

18  51  37 

30 

22 

10 

25  20 

10 

27  1 

16 

TABLE  OF  HOUSES  FOR  LONDON. 
L4T.  51»  32'. 


Right  Aicen. 

of 

Meridian. 

10 

11 

12 

Ascend. 

2 

3 

Scorpio,  Scorpio, 

a(^itt. 

Sagitti 

Aquar, 

^Pitees. 

H.  M.    t. 

0 

0 

0 

0  , 

0 

0 

13  51  37 

0 

22 

10 

25  20 

10 

27 

13  55  37 

1 

23 

11 

26  10 

11 

28 

13  59  17 

2 

24 

11 

27   2 

12 

r 

14   3   8 

3 

25 

12 

27  53 

14 

1 

14   6  59 

4 

26 

13 

28  45 

15 

2 

14  10  51 

5 

26 

14 

29  36 

\Q 

4 

14  14  44 

6 

27 

15 

0vf29 

18 

5 

14  38  37 

7 

28 

15 

1  23 

19 

6 

14  22  31 

8 

29 

16 

2  18 

20 

8 

14  26  25 

9 

$ 

17 

3  16 

22 

9 

14  30  20 

10 

I 

18 

4  11 

23 

10 

14  34  16 

11 

2 

19 

5   9 

25 

11 

14  38  13 

12 

2 

20 

6   7 

26 

13 

14  42  10 

18 

3 

20 

7   6 

28 

14 

14  46   8 

14 

4 

21 

8   6 

29 

15 

14  50   7 

15 

5 

22 

9   8 

X 

17 

14  54   7 

16 

6 

23 

10  11 

3 

18 

14  58   7 

17 

7 

24 

11  15 

4 

19 

15   2   8 

18 

8 

25 

12  20 

6 

21 

15   6   9 

19 

9 

26 

13  27 

8 

22 

15  10  12 

20 

9 

27 

14  35 

9 

23 

15  14  15 

21 

lo 

27 

15  43 

11 

24 

15  18  19 

22 

11 

28 

16  52 

13 

26 

15  22  23 

23 

12 

29 

18   3 

14 

27 

15  26  29 

24 

13 

w 

19  16 

16 

28 

15  30  35 

25 

14 

1 

20  32 

17 

29 

15  34  41 

26 

15 

2 

21  48 

19 

» 

15  38  49 

27 

16 

3 

23   8 

21 

2 

16  42  57 

28 

17 

4 

24  29 

22 

3 

15  47   6 

29 

18 

5 

25  51 

24 

5 

15  51  15 

30 

18 

e 

27  15 

26 

6 

17 


TABLE  OF  HOUSES  FOR  LONDON. 
Lat.  51«  32'. 


I 

Right  Ascen. 

10 

11 

12 

Ascend. 

2 

3 

of 

Meridian. 

Sagitt. 

Sagitt. 

Caprie. 

c,^ 

Pisces. 

Taunu, 

H.   M. 

8. 

0 

0 

0 

0     / 

0 

0 

15  51 

15 

0 

18 

6 

27  15 

26 

6 

15  55 

25 

1 

19 

7 

28  42 

28 

7 

15  59 

36 

2 

20 

8 

0*^11 

Y 

9 

16   3 

48 

S 

21 

9 

1  42 

1 

10 

16   7 

0 

4 

22 

10 

3  16 

3 

11 

16  12 

13 

5 

23 

11 

4  53 

5 

12 

16  16 

26 

6 

24 

12 

6  32 

7 

14 

16  20 

40 

7 

25 

13 

8  13 

9 

15 

16  24 

55 

8 

26 

14 

9  57 

11 

16 

16  29 

10 

9 

27 

16 

11  44 

12 

1/ 

16  33 

26 

10 

'28 

17 

12  34 

U 

18 

16  37 

42 

Jl 

29 

18 

15  24 

16 

20 

16  41 

59 

12 

Vf 

19 

17  20 

18 

21 

16  46 

16 

13 

1 

20 

19  18 

20 

22 

16  50 

34 

14 

2 

21 

21  22 

21 

23 

16  54 

52 

15 

3 

22 

23  27 

23 

25 

16  59 

10 

16 

4 

24 

25  35 

25 

26 

17   3 

29 

17 

5 

25 

27  46 

27 

27 

17   7 

49 

18 

6 

26 

30   0 

28 

28 

17  12 

9 

19 

7 

27 

2x19 

H 

29 

17  16 

29 

20 

8 

29 

4  40 

2 

n 

17  20 

49 

21 

9 

ax 

7   2 

3 

1 

17  25 

9 

22 

10 

1 

9  26 

5 

2 

17  29 

30 

23 

11 

3 

U  54 

7 

3 

17  33 

51 

24 

12 

4 

14  24 

8 

5 

17  38 

12 

25 

13 

5 

17   0 

10 

6 

17  42 

34 

26 

14 

7 

19  33 

11 

7 

17  46 

55 

27 

15 

8 

22   6 

13 

8 

17  51 

17 

28 

16 

10 

24  40 

14 

9 

17  55 

38 

29 

17 

11 

27  30 

16 

10 

18   0 

0 

30 

18 

13 

30   0 

17 

H 

18 


TABLE  OF  HOUSES  FOR  LONDON. 
Lat.  51»  32'. 


Right  Ascen. 

10 

11 

12 

Aaceud. 

2 

3 

of 
Meridian. 

Capric, 

Ci^nie. 

Aquar. 

ArU$, 

Tattnu, 

Gemini. 

H.   M.  6. 

0 

p 

0 

0    • 

a 

0 

18   0   0 

0 

18 

13 

0   0 

17 

11 

18   4  22 

1 

20 

14 

2  37 

19 

13 

18   8  43 

2 

21 

16 

5  19 

20 

14 

18  13   5 

3 

22 

17 

7  55 

22 

15 

18  17  26 

4 

23 

19 

10  29 

23 

16 

18  21  48 

5 

24 

20 

13   2 

25 

17 

18  28   9 

6 

25 

22 

15  36 

26 

18 

18  30  30 

7 

26 

23 

18   6 

28 

19 

18  U    51 

8 

27 

25 

20  ai 

29 

20 

18  39  11 

9 

29 

27 

22  59 

n 

21 

18  43  31 

10 

^ 

28 

25  22 

1 

22 

18  47  51 

11 

1 

X 

27  42 

""IT" 

2:3 

18  52  11 

12 

2 

2 

29  58 

4 

24 

18  56  31 

13 

3 

3 

2»13 

5 

25 

19   0  50 

14 

4 

5 

4  24 

6 

26 

19   3   8 

15 

6 

7 

6  30 

8 

27 

19   9  20 

16 

7 

9 

8  36 

9 

28 

19  13  44 

17 

8 

10 

10  40 

10 

29 

19  18   1 

18 

9 

12 

12  39 

11 

2S 

19  22  18 

19 

10 

14 

14  37 

12 

1 

19  26  34 

20 

12 

16 

16  28 

13 

2 

19  30  50 

21 

13 

18 

18  17 

14 

3 

19  35   5 

22 

14 

19 

20   3 

16 

4 

19  39  20 

23 

15 

21 

21  48 

17 

5 

19  43  34 

24 

16 

23 

23  29 

18 

6 

19  47  47 

25 

18 

25 

25   9 

19 

7 

19  52   0 

26 

19 

27 

26  45 

20 

8 

'  19  56  12 

27 

20 

28 

28  18 

21 

9 

20   0  24 

28 

21 

T 

29  49 

22 

10 

20   4  35 

29 

23 

2 

ini9 

23 

11 

20   8  45 

30 

24 

4 

^  45 

24 

12 

19 


TABLE  OF  HOUSES  FOR  LONDON. 
Lat.  51"  32'. 


Right  Ascen. 

10 

11 

12 

Ascend. 

2 

3 

of 

Meridian. 

Aquar, 

Aquar. 

Aries. 

Gemini. 

Gemini. 

Cancer. 

H.   H.  8. 

a 

0 

0 

0     A 

0 

0 

20   8  45 

0 

24 

4 

2  45 

24 

12 

20  12  54 

1 

25 

6 

4   9 

25 

12 

20  17   3 

2 

27 

7 

5  32 

26 

13 

20  21  11 

3 

28 

9 

6  53 

27 

14 

20  25  19 

4 

29 

11 

8  12 

•28 

15 

20  29  26 

5 

X 

13 

9  27 

29 

16 

20  33  31 

6 

2 

14 

10  43 

25 

17 

20  37  37 

7 

3 

16 

11  57 

1 

18 

20  41  41 

8 

4 

18 

13   8 

2 

19 

20  45  45 

9 

6 

19 

14  18 

3 

20 

20  49  38 

10 

7 

21 

15  25 

3 

21 

20  53  51 

11 

8 

23 

lb  33 

4 

21 

20  57  52 

12 

9 

24 

17  39 

5 

22 

21   1  53 

13 

11 

26 

18  44 

6 

23 

21   5  53 

14 

12 

28 

19  48 

7 

24 

21   9  53 

15 

13 

29 

20  51 

8 

25 

21  13  52 

16 

15 

w 

21  53 

9 

26 

21  17  50 

17 

16 

2 

22  53 

10 

27 

21  21  47 

18 

17 

4 

23  52 

10 

28 

21  25  44 

19 

19 

5 

24  51 

11 

28 

21  29  40 

20 

20 

7 

25  48 

12 

29 

21  33  35 

21 

22 

8 

26  44 

13 

U 

21  37  29 

22 

23 

10 

27  40 

14 

I 

21  41  23 

23 

24 

11 

28  :u 

15 

2 

21  45  16 

24 

25 

13 

29  29 

15 

3 

21  49   9 

25 

26 

14 

0S22 

16 

4 

21  53   1 

26 

28 

15 

1  15 

17 

4 

21  56  52 

27 

29 

16 

2   7 

18 

5 

22   0  43 

28 

Y 

18 

2  57 

19 

6 

22   4  33 

29 

2 

19 

3  49 

19 

7 

22   8  23 

30 

3 

20 

4  38 

20 

8 

20 


TABLE  OF  HOUSES  FOR  LONDON. 
Lit.  510  32'. 


Right  Ascen. 

10 

11 

12 

Ascend. 

2 

1 
3 

of 

Meridian. 

PUeei. 

Arie*. 

Taunu. 

Cancer. 

Cancer. 

Leo. 

H.   M.   t. 

0 

0 

0 

0 

./ 

0 

0 

22   8  23 

0 

3 

20 

4 

38 

20 

8 

22  J2  12 

1 

4 

21 

5 

28 

21 

8 

22  16   0 

2 

6 

23 

6 

16 

22 

9 

22  19  48 

3 

7 

24 

7 

5 

23 

10 

22  23  35 

4 

8 

25 

7 

53 

23 

11 

22  27  22 

5 

9 

26 

8 

42 

24 

12 

22  31   8 

6 

10 

28 

9 

29 

25 

13 

22  34  54 

7 

12 

29 

10 

16 

26 

14 

22  38  40 

8 

13 

n 

11 

I 

26 

14 

22  42  25 

9 

14 

1 

11 

46 

27 

15 

22  46   9 

10 

15 

2 

12 

31 

28 

16 

22  49  53 

11 

17 

3 

13 

16 

29 

17 

22  53  37 

12 

18 

4 

14 

1 

29 

18 

22  57  20 

13 

19 

5 

14 

48 

ft 

19 

23   1   3 

14 

20 

6 

15 

29 

1 

19 

23   4  46 

15 

21 

7 

16 

11 

2 

20 

23   8  28 

16 

23 

8 

16 

55 

2 

21 

23  12  10 

17 

24 

9 

17 

38 

3 

22 

23  15  52 

18 

25 

10 

18 

20 

4 

23 

23  19  34 

19 

26 

11 

19 

3 

5 

24 

23  23  15 

20 

27 

12 

19 

46 

5 

24 

23  26  56 

21 

"~29~ 

13 

20 

26 

6 

25 

23  30  37 

22 

» 

14 

21 

8 

7 

26 

23  34  18 

23 

1 

15 

21 

50 

7 

27 

23  37  58 

24 

2 

16 

22 

31 

8 

28 

23  41  39 

25 

3 

17 

23 

12 

9 

28 

23  45  19 

26 

4 

18 

23 

53 

9 

29 

23  49   0 

27 

5 

19 

24 

as 

10 

n 

23  51  40 

28 

6 

20 

25 

15 

U 

1 

23  56  20 

29 

8 

21 

25 

56 

12 

2 

24   0   0 

30 

9 

22 

26 

36 

12 

3 

21 


DECLINATION. 


8 

'A 

< 

Dborbbs  of  North  Latitude.       j 

s 

pa 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0   1   0 

0 

o 

0 

1 

2  1  3 

4 

5  1  6 

7 

D. 

D.  M. 

D.  M 

D.  M. 

D.  M. 

D.  M. 

D.  M. 

D.  M.I 

D.  M. 

0 

23  28 

24  28 

25  28 

26  28  27  28128  28|29  28 

30  28 

30 

1 

23  28 

24  28 

25  28 

26  28 

27  28 

28  28 

29  28 

30  28 

29 

2 

23  27 

•24  27 

25  27 

26  27 

27  27 

28  27 

29  27 

30  27 

28 

3 

23  26 

24  26 

25  26 

26  26 

27  26 

28  26 

29  26 

30  26 

27 

4 

23  24 

24  24 

25  24 

26  24 

27  24 

28  24 

29  24 

30  24 

26 

5 

23  22|24  22 '25  22 

26  22 

27  22 

28  22 

29  22 

30  22 

25 

6 

23  20 

24  19 

25  19 

26  19 

27  19 

28  19 

29  19 

30  19  24| 

7 

23  17 

24  16 

25  16 

26  16 

27  16 

28  16 

29  16 

30  16 

23 

8 

23  13 

24  13 

25  13 

26  13 

27  13 

28  13 

29  13 

30  13 

22 

9 

23  10 

24  9 

25  9 

26  9 

27  9 

28  9 

29  9 

30  9 

21 

10 

23  5 

24  5 

25  5 

26  5 

27  5 

28  5 

29  5 

30  5 

20 

IJ 

23  1 

24  1 

25  1 

26  1 

27  0 

28  0 

29  0 

30  0 

19 

1-2 

22  56 

23  56 

24  56  25  56 

26  56 

27  56 

28  56 

29  55 

18 

13 

22  50 

23  50 

24  50  25  50 

26  50 

27  50 

28  50 

29  48 

17 

14 

22  44'23  44'24  43'25  43 

26  43 

27  42 

28  42 

29  41 

16 

15 

22  37  23  37  24  36  25  36 

26  36 

27  35 

28  35 

29  34 

15 

16 

22  30 

23  30 

24  29 

25  29 

26  29 

27  28 

28  28 

29  27 

14 
13 

17 

22  23 

23  23 

24  22 

25  22 

26  21 

27  20 

28  19 

29  18 

18 

22  15 

23  15 

24  14 

25  U 

26  13 

27  12 

28  11 

29  10 

12 

19 

22  7 

23  7 

24  6 

25  6 

26  5 

27  4 

28  3 

29  2 

11 

20 

21  58 

22  58 

23  57 

24  56 

25  55 

26  54 

27  b^i 

28  52!10| 

21 

21  49 

22  49 

23  48 

24  47 

25  46 

26  45 

27  44|28  43 

9 

22 

21  40 

22  40 

23  39 

24  38 

25  37 

26  36 

27  35  28  35 

8 

23 

21  30 

22  30 

23  29 

24  28 

25  27 

26  26 

27  25 

28  25 

7 

24 

21  20 

22  19 

23  18 

24  17 

25  16 

26  15 

27  14 

28  13 

6 

25 

21  9 

22  8  23  7 

24  6 

25  5 

26  4 

27  3 

28  2 

5 

26 120  58 

21  56 

22  55  23  54 

24  53 

25  52 

26  51 

27  50 

4 

27 

20  47 

21  44 

22  43  23  42 

24  41 

25  40 

26  39 

27  38 

3 

28 

20  35 

21  32 

22  31  23  30 

24  29 

25  28 

26  26 

27  25 

2 

3ol 

20  23 

21  30 

22  19  23  18 

24  17 

25  16 

26  14 

27  13 

1 

20  10  21  8 

22  6  23  5 

24  4 

25  2 

26  0 

26  59 

0 

22 


DECLINATION. 


Dborbbs  of  Nobth  Latitudb. 

s 

OS 

0 

0 

• 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

1 

2 

8 

4 

6 

6 

7 

C^ 

D 

D.  M. 

D.  M. 

D.  M. 

D.  IC.lD.  M 

D.  M.i 

D.  M.Id.  M.ilD.I 

0 

20  10 

21  8 

22  6 

23  6124  4  25  2|26  0|26  69ll30| 

i| 

19  67 

20  66 

21  64 

22  63 

23  61 

24  60 

25  48 

26  46 

29 

2 

19  44 

20  42 

21  41 

22  39 

23  37 

24  36 

25  34 

26  32 

28 

3 

19  31 

•jO  28 

21  27 

22  25 

23  23 

24  22 

25  20 

26  18 

27 

^ 

19  17 

20  14 

21  13 

22  11 

23  9 

24  8 

25  6 

26  4 

26 

5i;i9  2| 

20  0  20  69| 

21  67 

22  66  23  63 1 

24  61 

26  49  25| 

6 

18  48 

19  46 

20  44 

21  42 

22  40 

23  38 

24  36 

25  34! 

24 

7 

18  83 

19  31 

20  29 

21  27 

22  25 

23  23 

24  21 

25  19! 

23 

8 

18  17 

19  16 

20  13 

21  11 

22  9 

23  7 

24  6 

26  3 

22 

9 

18  2 

18  69 

19  67 

20  66 

21  63 

22  61 

23  49 

24  46 

21 

10 

17  46 

18  43 

19  41 

20  38 

21  36 

22  34 

23  31 

24  28 

20 

11 

17  29 

18  26 

19  24 

20  22 

21  19 

22  17 

23  14 

34  11 

19 

12 

17  13 

18  9 

19  7 

20  6 

21  2 

22  0 

22  67 

23  64 

18 

13 

16  66 

17  62 

18  50 

19  47 

20  44 

21  42 

22  39 

23  36 

17 

14 

16  89 

17  35 

18  33 

19  30 

20  27 

21  25 

22  22 

23  19 

16 

16 

16  21 

17  18 

18  16 

19  12 

20  9 

21  7 

22  4 

23  1 

15 

16 

16  3 

17  0 

17  57 

18  54 

19  61 

20  49 

21  46 

22  43 

"u 

17 

16  46 

16  42 

17  39 

18  36 

19  33 

20  30 

21  27 

22  24 

13 

18 

16  27 

16  23 

17  20 

18  17 

19  14 

20  11 

21  8 

22  6 

12 

19 

16  9 

16  4 

17  1 

17  68 

18  65 

19  52 

20  49 

21  46 

11 

20 

il4  60 

16  45 

16  41 

17  38 

18  36 

19  32 

20  29 

21  26 

10 

21 

14  31 

15  26 

16  22 

17  19 

18  16 

19  13 

20  10 

21  7 

9 

22 

14  11 

15  7 

16  3 

17  0 

17  66 

18  63 

19  50 

20  47 

8 

23 

13  52 

14  47 

15  43 

16  40 

17  36 

18  33 

19  29 

20  26 

7 

24 

13  32 

14  27 

16  23 

16  19 

17  15 

18  12 

19  8 

20  6 

6 

25 

13  12 

14  7 

16  3 

16  0 

16  66 

17  63 

IB  49 

19  45 

u 

26 

il2  62 

13  47 

14  43 

15  39 

16  36 

17  32 

18  28 

19  24 

4 

27 

12  32 

13  27 

14  23 

15  19 

16  15 

17  12 

18  8 

19  4 

3 

28 

12  11 

13  6 

14  2 

14  58 

16  64 

16  61 

17  47 

18  43 

2 

29 

11  60 

12  45 

13  41 

14  37 

15  3:^ 

16  30 

17  26 

18  22 

,  1 

30 

11  29 

12  24 

13  20 

14  16 

15  12  16  8 

17  4 

18  0 

1  0 

23 


DECLINATION. 


6 

Deqrbbs  of  North  Latitudb. 

00 

> 

i 

< 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

H 

D.  M.  D.  M 

D.  M. 

D.  M. 

D.  M. 

D.  M. 

D.  M. 

D.  M. 

fo" 

o| 

11  29  12  24 

13  20 

14  16  15  12{16  8|17  4 

18  0|30| 

1 

11  8 

12  4 

13  0 

13  56 

14  51 

15  47 

16  43 

17  39 

29 

2 

10  46 

11  42 

12  38 

13  33 

14  29 

15  25 

16  21 

17  17 

28 

3 

10  25 

11  21 

12  17 

13  12 

14  8 

15  4 

16  0 

16  56 

27 

4 

10  3 

10  59 

11  55 

12  51 

13  47 

14  43 

15  39 

16  35 

26 

5 

9  41 

10  39 

11  35 

12  30 

13  26 

14  22 

15  18 

16  14 

25 

"6 

9  19 

10  15 

11  11 

12  6 

13  2 

13  58 

14  54 

15  50 

24 

7 

8  57 

9  53 

10  49 

11  44 

12  40 

13  35 

14  31 

15  26 

23 

8 

8  35 

9  31 

10  27 

11  22 

12  18 

13  13 

14  9 

15  4 

22 

9 

8  12 

9  & 

10  4 

10  59 

11  54 

12  49 

13  44 

14  39 

21 

10 

7  50 

8  46 

9  41 

10  36 

11  31 

12  26 

13  21 

14  16 

20 

11 

7  27 

8  22 

9  17 

10  12 

11  7 

12  2 

12  57 

13  52 

19 

1. 

7  5 

8  0 

8  55 

9  50 

10  45 

11  40 

12  35 

13  30 

18 

13 

6  41 

7  36 

8  31 

9  26 

10  21 

11  16 

12  11 

13  6 

17 

14 

6  18 

7  13 

8  8 

9  3 

9  58 

10  53 

11  48 

12  431161 

15 

5  55 

6  51 

7  46 

8  41 

9  36 

10  31 

11  26  12  21|115| 

16 

5  32 

6  28 

7  23 

8  18 

9  13 

10  8 

11  3 

11  58 

14 

17 

5  8 

6  4 

6  59 

7  54 

8  49 

9  44 

10  39 

11  34 

13 

18 

4  45 

5  41 

6  36 

7  31 

8  26 

9  21 

10  16 

11  11 

12 

19 

4  21 

5  17 

6  12 

7  7 

8  2 

8  57 

9  52 

10  47 

11 

20 

3  58 

4  54 

5  49 

6  44 

7  39 

8  34  9  29 

10  24 

10 

21 

3  34 

4  30 

5  25 

6  20 

7  15 

8  10 

9  5 

10  0 

9 

22 

3  11 

4  7 

5  2 

5  57 

6  52 

7  47 

8  42 

9  37 

8 

23 

2  47 

3  43 

438 

5  33 

6  28 

7  23 

8  18 

9  13 

7 

.24 

2  23 

3  19 

4  14 

5  9 

6  4 

6  59 

7  54 

8  49 

6 

25 

2  0 

2  55 

3  50 

4  45 

5  40 

6  35 

7  30 

8  25 

5 

26 

1  36 

2  31 

3  26 

4  21 

5  16 

6  11 

7  6 

8  1 

4 

27 

1  12 

2  7 

3  2 

3  57 

4  52 

5  47 

6  42 

7  37 

3 

28 

0  48 

1  48 

243 

3  38 

433 

5  23 

6  18 

7  13 

2 

29 

0  24 

1  19 

2  14 

3  9 

4  4 

4  59 

5  54 

6  49 

1 

30 

0  0 

0  55 

1  50  2  45 

3  40 

4  35 

5  30 

6  25 

1  0 

24 


DECLINATION. 


< 

OS 

m 

Oborbbi 

OF  NOBTH  LaTITUDB. 

s 

0 

0 

0 

1 

p 
2 

0 

3 

p 
4 

• 
5 

• 

6 

0 

7 

D 
0 

D.  M. 
0   0 

O.  M. 

0  55 

D.  M. 

1  50 

D.  M.' 

2  45 

D.  M. 

3  40 

D.  M.  D.  M. 

4  35|  5  30 

4  11  ~5~6 
3  47  4  42 
3  24  4  19 
3  0  3  55 
2  36  3  31 

D.  M.I|d. 

6  25||30 

1 

2 
3 
4 
5 

0  48 

1  12 

1  36 

2  0 

0  31 
0  7 

1  27 
1  3 
0  39 
0  15 

2  21 
1  57 
1  34 
1  10 

0  46 

3  16 
2  52 
2  29 
2  5 
1  41 

6  1 
5  37 
5  14 

4  5U 
4  26 

29 
28 
27 
26 

25 

0  li 

0  41 

1  5 

0  10 

6 
7 
8 
9 
10 

2  23 

2  47 

3  11 
8  34 

1  3  58 

128 

1  52 

2  15 

2  36 

3  3 

0  33 

0  57 

1  21 

1  44 

2  8 

0  22 

1  17 
0  53 
0  29 
0  6 

2  12 
1  48 
1  26 
1  2 
0  38 

3  7 
2  43 
2  20 
1  57 
1  33 

4  2 
3  34 
3  15 
2  52 
2  28 

24 
23 
22 
21 
20 

0  2 
0  26 

0  49 

1  13 

0  18 

11 
12 
13 
U 
15 

4  21 

4  45 

5  8 
5  32 
5  55 

3  26 

3  50 

4  13 

4  37 

5  0 

2  31 

2  55 

3  18 

3  42 

4  5 

1  36 

2  0 
2  23 

2  46 

3  9 

0  41 

1  5 
1  2i 

1  51 

2  14 

0  14 

1  9 
0  46 
0  24 

2   4 
1  41 
1  18 
0  55 
0  32 

18 
15 

0  10 
0  33 

0  56 

1  18 

0  0 
0  23 

16 
17 
18 
19 
20 

6  18 

6  41 

7  5 
7  27 
7  50 

5  23 

5  45 

6  9 
6  31 
6  54 

4  27 

4  50 

5  14 
5  36 
5  58 

3  31 

3  54 

4  18 

4  40 

5  2 

2  36 

2  59 

3  23 

3  45 

4  6 

1  40 

2  3 
2  27 

2  49 

3  10 

0  45 

1  8 
1  32 

1  54 

2  15 

0  9 

13 

lio 

0  13 
0  36 

0  58 

1  19 

21 
•22 
23 
24 
25 

8  12 
8  35 

8  57 

9  19 
9  41 

7  16 

7  39 

8  1 
8  23 
8  45 

6  20 

6  43 

7  5 
7  27 
7  49 

5  24 

5  47 

6  9 
6  31 
6  53 

4  28 

4  51 

5  13 
5  35 
5  58 

3  32 

3  56 

4  18 

4  40 

5  2 

2  37 

3  0 
3  22 

3  45 

4  6 

1  41 

2  4 
2  26 

2  49 

3  10 

9 
8 
7 
6 
5 

26 
27 
28 
29 
30 

10  3 
10  25 

10  46 

11  8 
U  29 

9  7 
9  30 
9  51 
10  13 
10  33 

8  11 
8  34 

8  55 

9  17 
9  37 

7  15 

7  38 

8  1 
8  21 
8  41 

6  19 

6  42 

7  4 
7  24 
7  44 

5  24 

5  46 

6  8 
6  28 
6  48 

4  28 

4  50 

5  12 
5  32 
5  52 

3  32 

3  54 

4  16 
4  36 
4  56 

4 
3 

2 
1 
0 

i>5 


DECLINATION. 


1 

Dbgrbbs  of  North  Latitudb. 

T 
s 

< 

< 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

& 

0 

1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

D.I 

D.  H« 

D.  M 

D.  H. 

D.  M. 

D.  M. 

D.  M.lD.  M. 

D.  M. 

0 

o' 

11  29 

10  33 

9  37 

8  41 

7  45 

6  491  5  53 

4  57 

30 

1 

11  50 

10  54 

9  58 

9  2 

8  6 

7  10 

6  14 

5  18 

29 

2 

12  11 

11  15 

10  18 

9  22 

8  26 

7  29 

6  32 

5  36 

28 

8 

12  32 

U  36 

10  39 

9  43 

8  47 

7  50 

6  54 

5  58 

27 

4 

]2  52 

11  56 

10  58 

10  1 

9  5 

8  8 

7  12 

6  16 

26 

5 

13  12 

12  16 

11  19  10  22 

9  26 

8  29 

7  33 

6  37 

25 

r> 

13  32 

12  3b 

11  39 

10  42 

9  46 

8  49 

7  52 

6  55 

24 

7 

13  52 

12  56 

11  59 

11  2 

10  5 

9  8 

8  11 

7  14 

23 

8 

14  11 

13  14 

12  17 

11  20 

10  23 

9  26 

8  29 

7  32 

22 

9 

14  31 

13  34 

12  37 

11  40 

10  43 

9  46 

8  49 

7  52 

21 

10 

14  50 

13  53  12  56 

11  59 

11  2 

10  5 

9  8 

8  11 

20 

11 

15  9 

14  12 

13  15 

12  18 

11  21 

10  23 

9  26 

8  29 

19 

12 

15  27 

14  30 

13  33 

12  36 

11  39 

10  41 

9  44 

8  47 

18 

13 

15  45 

14  47 

13  50 

12  53 

11  56 

10  58 

10  1 

9  4 

17 

14 

16  3  15  5'14  8  13  11 

12  14 

11  16 

10  19 

9  22 

16 

15 

16  21  15  23  14  26  13  29 

12  32 

11  34 

10  37 

9  40 

15 

16 

16  39 

15  44 

14  44 

13  46 

12  49 

11  51 

10  54 

9  57 

14 

17 

16  56 

15  58 

15  1 

14  3 

13  6 

12  8 

11  11 

10  14 

13 

18 

17  13 

16  15 

15  18 

14  20 

13  22 

12  24 

11  27 

10  30 

12 

19 

17  29 

16  31 

15  33 

U  35 

13  37 

12  39  11  42 

10  45 

11 

20 

17  46 

16  48 

15  50 

14  52  13  54 

12  56  11  59 

U  1 

10 

21 

Id  2 

17  4 

16  6 

15  8 

14  10 

13  12 

12  15 

11  17 

9 

22 

18  17 

17  19 

16  21 

15  23 

14  25 

13  26 

12  28 

11  30 

8 

23 

18  33 

17  35 

16  36 

15  38 

14  40 

13  41 

12  43 

11  45 

7 

24 

18  48 

17  50 

16  52 

15  54 

14  56 

13  57 

12  59 

12  0 

6 

25 

19  2 

18  4 

17  6 

16  8115  10 

14  11 

13  15 

12  14 

5 

•>f) 

19  17 

18  1<^ 

17  20 

16  22  15  24 

14  25 

13  27 

12  29||  4| 

}1 

19  31 

18  33 

17  34 

16  36  15  37 

14  39 

13  40 

12  42 

3 

28 

19  44 

18  45 

17  47 

16  48  15  49 

14  51 

13  52 

12  54 

2 

9^ 

19  57 

18  58 

17  59 

17  1  16  2 

15  4 

14  5 

13  7 

1 

30 

20  10 

19  11 

18  12  17  I4il6  15 

15  16 

14  17 

i:^  18 

L^ 

^ 


26 


DECLINATION. 


1 

Dborbbs  of  North  Latitude. 

s 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0  1 

0 

•< 

CO 

0 

1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6  1 

7 

i 

D. 

D.  M. 

D.  M. 

D.  M. 

D.  M. 

D.  M.l 

D.  M.l 

D.  M.Id.  M.! 

D. 

0 

20  10 

19  11 

18  12 

17  14  16  15|15  16|14  17)13  18] 

30 

T 

20  23 

19  24 

18  25 

17  26 

16  27 

15  29 

14  30 

13  31 

29 

2 

•20  35 

19  36 

18  37 

17  38 

16  39 

15  41 

14  42 

13  43 

28 

3 

20  47 

19  48 

18  49 

17  50 

16  52 

15  53 

14  54 

13  55 

27 

4 

20  58 

19  59 

19  0 

18  1 

17  2 

16  3 

15  5 

14  6 

26 

5 
6 

21  9 

20  10 

19  U 

18  12 

17  12 

16  14 

15  15 

14  16 

25 
24 

21  20 

20  21 

19  22 

18  23 

17  24 

16  25 

15  25 

14  26 

7 

21  30 

20  31 

19  32 

18  33 

17  34 

16  34 

15  35 

14  36 

23 

8 

21  40 

20  41 

19  42 

18  43 

17  44 

16   43 

15  44 

14  44 

22 

9 

21  49 

20  50 

19  51 

18  52 

17  53 

16  53 

15  54 

14  54 

21 

10 

21  58 

20  59 

20  0  19  1 

18  2 

17  2 

16  2 

15  31 

20 
19 

11 

22  7 

21  8 

20  9 

19  10 

18  11 

17  11 

16  li;i5  12 

1-2 

22  15 

21  16 

20  17 

19  18 

18  19 

17  19 

16  19  15  20 

18 

13 

22  23 

21  24 

20  25 

19  25 

18  26 

17  26 

16  26 1^5  27 

17 

14 

22  30 

21  31 

20  32 

19  32 

18  33 

17  33 

16  33  15  34 

16 

15 

22  37 

21  37 

20  37 

19  37 

18  3c 

17  38 

16  38  15  39 

15 

16 

22  44 

21  44 

20  44 

19  40 

18  45 

17  45 

16  45 

15  46t 

14 

17 

22  50 

21  50 

20  50 

19  50 

18  51 

17  51 

16  51 

15  52 

13 

18 

22  56 

21  56 

•20  56 

19  56 

18  57 

17  57 

16  57 

15  58 

12 

19 

23  1 

22  1 

21  1 

20  1 

19  2 

18  2 

17  2 

16  2 

11 

20 

23  5 

22  5 

21  5 

20  5 

19  5 

18  5 

17  5 

16  5 

ilO 

21 

123  10 

22  9 

21  9 

2a  9 

19  9 

18  9 

17  9 

16  9 

9 

22 

23  13 

22  13 

21  13 

20  13 

19  13 

18  13 

17  13 

16  13 

8 

23 

23  17 

22  16 

21  16 

•20  16 

19  16 

18  16 

17  16 

16  16 

7 

24 

23  20 

22  19 

21  19 

•20  19 

19  19 

18  19 

17  19 

16  19 

6 

25 

23  22 

22  22 

21  22 

20  22 

19  22 

18  22 

17  22 

16  22 

5 

26 

23  24 

22  25 

21  25 

20  25 

19  25 

18  25 

17  25 

16  25 

"J 

27 

23  26 

22  26 

21  26 

20  26 

19  26 

18  26 

17  26 

16  26 

3 

28 

23  27 

22  27 

21  27 

20  27 

19  27 

18  27 

17  27 

16  27 

2 

29 

23  28 

22  28 

21  28 

20  28 

19  28 

18  28 

17  28 

16  28 

1 

30j*23  28 

22  28121  28 

20  28 

19  28  18  28 

17  28 

16  28 

0 

27 
DECLINATION. 


i 

Deorbbs  of  South  Latitude. 

L 

e 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

± 

0 

1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

!S 

D. 

Id.  m. 

D.  M. 

D.  M. 

D.  M.ID.  M. 

D.  M. 

D.  M. 

D.  M. 

D. 

0 

23  28 

22  28 

21  28 

20  28!  19  28 

18  28  17  28|16  28 

30 

"I 

23  28 

22  28 

21  28 

20  26 

19  28 

18  28 

17  28 

16  28 

29 

2 

23  27 

22  27 

21  27 

20  27 

19  27 

18  27 

17  27 

16  27 

28 

3 

23  26 

22  26 

21  2(J 

20  26 

19  26 

18  26 

17  26 

16  26 

27 

4 

23  24 

22  25 

21  25 

20  25 

19  25 

18  25 

17  25 

16  25 

26 

5 

6" 

23  22 

22  22 

21  22 

20  22 

19  22  18  22 

17  22 

16  22 

25 

23  20 

22  19 

21  19 

20  19 

19  19 

18  19 

17  19 

16  19 

24 

7 

23  17 

22  16 

21  16 

20  16 

19  16 

18  16 

17  16 

16  16 

23 

8 

23  13 

22  13 

21  13 

20  13 

19  13 

18  13 

17  13 

16  13 

22 

9 

23  10 

22  9 

21  9 

20  9 

19  9 

18  9 

17  9 

16  9 

21 

10 

23  5 

22  5 

21  5 

20  5 

19  5 

18  5 

17  5 

16  5 

20 
19 

11 

23  1 

22  1 

21  1 

20  1 

19  2 

18  2 

17  2 

16  2 

12 

22*5» 

21  56 

•20  56 

19  56 

18  57 

17  57 

16  57 

15  58 

18 

13 

22  50 

21  50 

20  50 

19  50 

18  51 

17  51 

16  51 

15  52 

17 

14 

22  44 

21  44 

20  44 

19  44 

18  45 

17  45 

16  45 

15  46 

16 

15 

22  37 

21  37 

20  37 

19  37 

18  38 

17  38 

16  38 

15  3d 

15 

16' 

22  30 

21  31 

20  32 

19  32 

18  33 

17  83 

16  33 

15  34 

14 

17 

22  23 

21  24 

20  25 

19  25 

18  26 

17  26 

16  26 

15  27 

13 

18 

22  15 

21  16 

20  17 

19  18 

18  19 

17  19 

16  19 

15  20 

12 

19 

23  7 

21  8 

20  9 

19  10 

18  11 

17  11 

16  ]i;i5  12 

11 

20121  58 

20  59 

20  0 

19  1 

18  2 

17  2 

16  2  15  3 

10 

21 

21  49 

20  50 

19  51 

18  52 

17  53 

16  53 

15  54 

14  54 

9 

22 

21  40 

20  41 

19  42 

18  43 

17  44 

16  43 

15  44 

14  44 

8 

23 

21  30 

20  31 

19  32 

18  33 

17  34 

16  34 

15  35 

14  36 

7 

24 

21  20 

20  21 

19  22 

18  23 

17  24 

16  25 

15  25 

14  26 

6 

25  21  9i20  10 

19  11*18  12 

17  12 

16  14 

15  15 

14  16 

6 

2« 

120  58 

19  ft9 

19  0  18  1 

17  2 

16  3 

15  5 

14  6 

1 

27 

20  47 

19  48 

18  49  17  50 

16  52 

15  53 

14  54 

13  55 

3 

28 

20  35 

19  36 

18  37  17  38 

16  39 

15  41 

14  42 

13  43 

2 

29 

120  23 

19  24 

18  25  17  26 

16  27 

15  29 

14  30 

13  31 

1 

30  20  10 

19  11 

18  12  17  14 

16  15 

15  16 

14  17 

13  18, 

0 

28 


DECLINATION, 


s 

Dbgrbbs  of  South  Latitude. 

•  1  0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0  1  1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

^< 

D.jlO.  M. 

D.  M 

D.  M. 

D.  M.ID.  M. 

D.  M. 

D.  M. 

D.  M. 

T 

01120  10 

19  11 

|18  ]2|17  14116  15 

15  16  14  17|1^  18 

30 

1 

19  57 

18  58 

17  59 

17  1,16  2 

15  14 

14  5 

13  7 

29 

2 

19  44 

18  45 

17  47 

16  481 15  49 

14  51 

13  52 

12  54 

28 

3 

19  31 

18  33 

17  34 

16  36 

15  37 

14  39 

13  40 

12  42 

27 

4 

19  17 

18  19 

17  20 

16  22 

15  24 

14  25 

13  27 

12  29 

26 

5 

19  2 

18  4 

17  6'16  8 

15  10 

14  11 

13  13 

12  14 

25 

6 

18  48 

17  50 

16  52 

15  54 

14  56 

U  57 

12  59 

12  a 

124 

7 

18  33 

17  35 

16  36 

15  38 

14  40 

13  41 

12  43 

11  45 

23 

8 

18  17 

17  19 

16  21 

15  23 

14  25 

13  26 

12  28 

U  30 

•22 

9 

18  2 

17  4 

16  6 

15  8 

14  10 

13  12 

12  15 

11  17 

21 

10 

17  46 

16  48 

15  50 

14  52 

13  54112  56!  11  59 

11  1 

iO 

U 

17  29 

16  31 

15  33 

14  35 

13  37 

12  39 

11  4z 

10  40il9l 

12 

17  13 

16  15 

15  18 

14  20 

13  22 

12  21 

11  27 

10  30 

lb 

13 

16  56 

15  58 

15  1 

14  3 

13  6 

12  8 

11  11 

JO  14 

k' 

14 

16  39 

15  44 

14  44 

13  46 

12  49 

11  51 

10  54 

9  57 

!]6 

15 
16 

16  21 

15  23 

14  26 

13  29 

12  32  11  34| 

10  37 

9  40 

15 
14 

10  3 

15  5 

14  8 

13  11 

12  14 

11  lb 

10  19 

9  22 

17 

15  45 

14  47 

13  50 

12  53 

11  56 

10  58 

10  1 

9  4 

J3 

18 

15  27 

14  30 

13  33 

12  36 

11  39 

10  41 

9  44 

8  47 

12 

19 

15  9  14  12' 13  15 

12  18 

11  21 

10  23 

9  26 

8  29 

11 

20 

14  50  13  53  12  56 

11  59 

11  2 

10  5 

9  8 

8  11  10| 

21 

14  31 

13  34 

12  37 

11  4i) 

10  43 

9  46 

8  49 

7  52 

9 

22 

14  11 

13  14 

12  17 

11  20 

10  23 

9  26 

8  29 

7  32 

8 

23 

13  52 

12  56 

11  59 

11  2 

10  5 

9  8 

8  11 

7  14 

7 

24 

13  32 

12  36 

11  39 

10  42 

9  46 

8  49 

7  52 

6  55 

6 

25 

13  12 

12  16  U  19| 

10  22 

9  26 

8  29 

7  33 

6  37 

5 

26 

12  52 

11  5ti 

10  58 

10  1 

9  5 

8  8 

7  12 

6  16| 

"4 

27 

12  32 

11  36 

10  39 

9  43 

8  47 

7  50 

6  54 

5  58 

3 

28 

12  11 

11  15 

10  18 

9  22 

8  26 

7  29 

6  32 

5  36 

2 

29 

11  50 

10  54 

9  58 

9  2 

8  6 

7  10 

6  14 

5  18 

1 

30 

11  29 

10  33 

9  37 

8  41 

7  45 

6  49 

5  53 

4  571 

0 

29 
DECLINATION. 


o 

Degrees  of  South  Latitude. 

< 

0 

0 

n 

1 

0 

2 

0 

3 

0 

4 

0 

5 

0 

6 

0 

7 

D. 
0 

D.  M. 

11  29 

D.  M. 

10  33 

D.  M. 

9  37 

D.M. 

8  41 

D.  M. 

7  45 

D.M. 

6  49 

D.  M. 

4  53 

D.M.j 

5  57 

D. 

30 

1 

2 
3 
4 

6 

11  8 
10  46 
10  25 
10  3 
9  41 

10  J3 
9  51 
9  30 
9  7 
8  45 

9  17 
8  55 
834 
8  11 
7  49 

8  21 
8  0 
7  38 
7  15 
6  53 

7  24 
7  4 
6  42 
6  19 
6  57 

6  28 
6  8 
5  46 
5  24 
5  2 

5  32 
5  12 
4  50 
4  28 
4  6 

4  36 
4  16 
3  54 
3  32 
3  10 

29 
28 
27 
26 
25 

6 
7 
8 
9 
10 

11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 

19 
20 

9  19 
8  57 
8  35 
8  12 

7  50 

8  23 
8  1 
7  39 
7  16 
6  54 

7  27 
7  5 
6  43 
6  20 

5  58 

6  31 
6  9 
5  47 
'5  24 
5  2 

5  35 
5  13 
4  51 
4  28 
4  6 

4  40 
4  18 
3  56 
3  32 
3  10 

3  45 
3  22 
3  0 
2  37 
2  15 

2  49 
2  26 
2  4 
1  41 
1  19 

24 
23 
22 
21 
20 

7  27 
7  5 
6  41 
6  18 
5  55 

6  31 
6  9 
5  45 
5  22 
5  0 

5  36 
5  14 
4  50 
4  27 
4  5 

4  4t» 
4  18 
3  54 
3  31 
3  9 

3  45 
3  23 
2  59 
2  30 
2  14 

2  49 
2  27 
2  3 
1  40 
1  18 

1  54 
1  32 
1  8 
0  45 
0  23 

0  58 
0  36 
0  13 

li) 
18 
17 

0  i 
0  32 

15 

5  32 
5  8 
4  45 
4  21 

3  58 

4  37 
4  13 
3  50 
3  26 
3  3 

3  42 
3  18 
2  55 
2  31 
2  8 

2  46 
2  23 
2  0 
I  3) 
1  13 

1  51 
1  2^* 
1  5 
0  41 
0  18 

0  50 
0  33 
0  14 

0  0 
0  24 

0  46 
•l  9 

1  33 

0  55 

1  19 

1  41 

2  4 
2  28 

14 
13 
12 

11 
10 

0  14 
0  38 

21{ 
22 
•23 
24 
25 

3  34 
3  11 
2  47 
2  23 
2  0 

2  39 
2  16 
1  52 
1  28 
1  5 

1  44 
1  21 
0  57 

0  49 
0  26 
0  2 

0  6 
0  29 

0  53 

1  17 
1  41 

I  2 
1  25 

1  48 

2  12 
2  36 

1  57 

2  20 

2  43^ 

3  (i 
3  31 

2  52 

3  15 

3  38 

4  2 

4  20 

9 
8 
7 
6 
5 

' 

0  33 
0  10 

U  22 
0  46 

26 
27 
28 
29 
30 

,  1  36 

jl  12 

0  48 

0  24 

1  0  0 

0  41 
0  17 

ro"i5 

Q  39 
1  3 
1  27 
1  50 

1  10 
1  34 

1  57 

2  21 

'  2  45 

2  5 

2  29 

2  52 

3  16 

3  40 

3  0 
3  24 

3  47 

4  11 
4  35 

3  55 

4  19 

4  42 

5  6 
5  30 

4  50 

5  14 

5  37 

6  1 
6  25 

4 
3 
2 
1 
0 

1 

0    7 
0  31 
0  55 

ao 

DECLINATION. 


< 
1  ^ 

1 

Dborbbs  of  South  Latitude. 

1 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

J 

0 

1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

£ 

D. 

D.  M. 

D.  M. 

O.  M. 

D.  M. 

D.  M. 

D.  M. 

D.  M. 

D.  M. 

D. 

0 

0  0 

0  55 

1  50 

2  45 

3  40 

4  35 

5  30 

6  25 

30 

T 

0  24 

1  19 

2  14 

3  9 

4  4.  4  59 

5  55 

6  49 

"29 

2 

0  48 

1  48 

2  43 

3  38 

4  33 

5  23 

6  18 

7  13 

28 

3 

1  12 

2  7 

3  2 

3  57 

4  52 

5  47 

6  42 

7  37 

27 

4 

1  36 

2  31 

3  26 

4  21 

5  16 

6  U 

7  6 

8  1 

26 

5 

2  0 

2  55 

3  50 

4  46 

5  40 

6  35 

7  30 

8  25 

25 

6 

2  23 

3  19 

4  14 

5  9 

6  4 

6  59 

7  54 

8  49 

24 

7 

2  47 

3  43 

4  38 

5  33 

6  28 

7  23 

8  18 

9  13 

23 

8 

3  11 

4  7 

5  2 

5  57 

6  52 

7  47 

8  42 

9  37 

22 

9 

3  34 

4  30 

5  25 

6  20 

7  15 

8  10 

9  5 

10  0 

21 

10 

3  58 

4  54 

5  49 

6  44 

7  39 

8  34 

9  29 

10  24 

20 

11 

1  4  21 

5  17 

6  12 

7  7 

b  2 

8  57 

9  52 

10  47  1191 

12  4  45 

5  41 

6  36 

7  31 

8  26 

9  21 

10  16 

11  11 

18 

18  5  8 

6  4 

6  59 

7  54 

8  49 

9  44 

10  39 

11  34 

17 

U  5  32 

6  28 

7  23 

8  18 

9  13 

10  8 

11  3 

11  58 

16 

15  5  55 

6  51 

7  46!  8  41 

9  30 

10  31 

11  2b 

12  21 

15 

16  6  18 

7  13 

8  8 

9  3 

9  58 

10  53 

11  48 

12  43,141 

17  6  41 

7  36 

8  31 

9  26 

10  21 

11  16 

12  11 

13  6 

13 

18  7  5 

8  0 

8  55 

9  50 

10  45 

11  40 

12  35 

13  30 

12 

19  7  27 

8  22 

9  17 

10  12 

11  7 

12  2 

12  57 

13  52 

11 

20|  7  50 

8  46 

9  41 

10  36 

11  31 

12  26 

13  21  14  16||10| 

21 

8  12 

9  8 

10  4  10  591 

11  54 

12  49 

13  44 

14  39 

9 

22 

8  35 

9  31 

10  27 

11  22 

12  18 

13  13 

14  9 

15  4 

8 

23 

8  57 

9  53 

10  49 

11  44 

12  40 

13  35 

14  31 

15  26 

7 

24 

9  19  10  15 

11  11 

12  6 

13  2 

13  58 

14  54 

15  50 

6 

25 

9  4110  39 

11  35 

12  30 

13  26 

14  22 

15  18 

16  14 

5 

26 

10  3 

10  59 

11  55 

12  51 

13  47 

14  43 

15  39 

16  3£ 

4 

27 

10  25 

11  21 

12  17 

13  12 

14  8 

15  4 

16  0 

16  5o 

3 

28 

10  46 

U  42 

12  38 

13  33 

14  29 

15  25 

16  21 

17  17 

2 

29 

11  8 

12  4 

13  0 

13  56 

14  51 

15  47 

16  43 

17  39 

1 

30 

11  29 

12  24 

13  20  14  16| 

15  12 

16  8 

17  4 

18  0 

0 

31 


DECLINATION. 


i 

Dbqrebs  of  South  Latitudb. 

1 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

a 

0 

1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

< 

o. 

O.  M. 

O.  M 

O.  M. 

O.  M. 

D.  M. 

D.  M. 

D.  M. 

D.  M. 

D. 

0 

11  29 

12  24 

13  20 

14  16 

15  12  16  8|17  4|18  0 

30 

1 

11  50 

12  45 

13  41 

14  37 

15  33 

16  30! 17  26 

18  22 

29 

2 

12  11 

13  6 

14  2 

14  58 

15  54 

\6  51 

17  47 

18  43 

28 

3 

12  32 

1.^  27 

14  23 

15  19 

16  15 

17  12 

18  8 

19  4 

27 

4 

12  52 

13  47 

14  43 

15  39 

16  35 

17  32 

18  28 

19  24 

26 

5 

13  12 

14  7 

15  3 

16  0 

16  56 

17  53 

18  49 

19  45 

25 

^ 

13  32 

14  27 

15  23 

16  19 

17  15 

18  12 

19  8 

20  5 

24 

7 

13  52 

14  47 

15  43 

16  40 

17  36 

18  33 

19  29 

20  2o 

23 

8 

14  11 

15  7 

16  3 

17  0 

17  56 

18  53 

19  50 

20  47 

22 

9 

14  31 

15  26 

16  22 

17  19 

18  16 

19  13 

20  10 

21  7 

21 

10 

14  50 

15  45 

16  41 

17  38 

18  35 

19  32 

20  29 

21  26 

20 

11 

15  9 

16  4 

17  1 

17  58  18  55 

19  52 

20  49 

21  46 

19 

12 

15  27 

16  23 

17  20 

18  17 

19  14 

20  11 

21  8 

22  5 

18 

13 

15  45 

16  42 

17  39 

18  36 

19  33 

20  30 

21  27 

22  24 

17 

14 

IG  3 

17  0 

17  57 

18  54 

19  51 

20  49 

21  46 

22  43 

16 

15 

16  21 

17  18 

18  15 

19  12 

20  9 

21  7 

22  4 

23  1 

15 

16 

16  39 

17  35 

18  33 

19  30 

20  27 

21  25 

22  22 

23  19 

14 

17 

16  56 

17  52 

18  50 

19  47 

20  44 

21  42 

22  39 

23  36 

13 

18 

17  13 

18  9 

19  7 

20  5 

21  2 

22  0 

22  57 

23  54 

12 

19 

17  29 

18  26 

19  24 

20  22 

21  19 

22  17 

23  14 

24  11 

11 

20 

17  46 

18  43 

19  41 

20  38 

21  36 

22  34 

23  31 

24  28 

10 

21 

18  2  18  59 

19  57 

20  55 

21  53 

22  51 

23  49 

24  46 

9 

22 

18  17 

19  15 

20  13 

21  1 

22  9 

23  7 

24  5 

25  3 

8 

2.J 

18  33 

19  31 

20  29 

21  27 

22  25 

23  23 

24  21 

25  19 

7 

24 

18  48 

19  46 

20  44 

21  42 

22  40 

23  38 

24  36 

25  34 

6 

25 

19  2|20  0 

20  59 

21  57 

22  55  23  53' 24  51 

25  49| 

_5 

•26 

19  17 

20  14 

21  13 

22  11 

23  9 

24  8 

25  6 

26  4 

4 

27 

19  31 

20  28 

21  27 

22  25 

23  23 

24  22 

25  20 

26  18 

3 

28 

19  44 

20  42 

21  41 

22  39 

23  37 

24  37 

25  34 

26  32 

2 

29 

19  57 

20  56 

21  54 

22  53 

23  51 

24  50 

25  48 

26  46 

I 

30 

20  10 

21  8 

22  6 

23  5  24  4| 

25  2 

26  0 

26  f)9 

0 

32 

DECLINATION. 


5        Deorebs  op  South  Latitude. 

i 

i 

0 

0 

0 

• 

0 

0 

0 

• 

^ 

1  0 

1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

'o 

D. 

,0.  M. 

D.  M 

D.  M. 

D.  M. 

D.  M.l 

D.  M.  D.  M. 

D.  M., 

D. 

30 

0 

120  10 

21  8 

22  6 

23  5  24  4 

25  2  26  0|26  59| 

1 

20  23  21  20 

22  19 

23  18 

24  17 

25  16|26  14,127  13| 

29 

2 

20  35 

21  32 

22  31 

23  30 

24  29 

25  2S 

26  26|27  25 

28 

3 

20  47 

21  44 

22  43 

23  42 

24  41 

25  40 

26  39  27  38 

27 

4 

20  58 

21  56 

22  55 

23  54 

24  53 

25  52 

26  51  27  50 

26 

5 

21  9 

22  8 

22  7 

24  6 

25  5 

26  4' 27  3128  2 

25 

6 

21  20 

22  19123  J8 

24  17 

25  16 

26  15  27  14 

28  13 

24 

7 

21  30 

22  30 

23  29 

24  28 

25  27 

26  26  27  25 

28  25 

23 

8 

21  40 

22  40 

23  39 

24  38 

25  5/ 

26  36  27  35 

28  35 

•22 

9 

21  49 

22  49 

23  48 

24  47 

25  46 

26  45  27  44 

28  43 

21 

10 

21  58 

22  58 

23  57 

24  56 

25  55 

26  54  27  53 

28  52 

'20 

II 

22  7 

23  7 

24  6 

25  6  26  5 

27  4 

28  3 

29  2 

19 

1-^ 

22  15 

23  50 

24  14 

25  14 

26  13 

27  12 

28  11 

29  10 

i^ 

13 

22  23 

23  23 

24  22 

25  22 

26  21 

27  20 

28  19 

29  18 

17 

14 

22  30 

23  30 

24  29 

25  29 

26  29 

27  28 

28  28 

29  27 

16 

15 

22  37 

23  37 

24  36 

25  36 

26  36 

27  35 

28  35  29  34 

15 

16;  22  44 

23  44 

21  43 

25  43 

26  43  27  42i28  42| 

29  41 

14 

17  22  50 

23  50 

24  50 

25  50 

26  50 

27  50 

28  50 

29  48 

13 

18 

|22  56 

23  56 

24  56 

25  56 

26  56 

27  56 

28  56 

29  55 

12 

19 

^23  1 

24  1 

25  1 

26  1 

27  0 

28  0 

29  0 

30  0 

U 

20 

23  5 

24  5 

25  5 

26  5 

27  5  28  5 

29  5 

30  5'10| 

^1 

23  10  24  9 

25  9 

26  9 

27  9  28  9  29  9  30  9\ 

9 

n 

23  13  24  13 

25  13 

26  13 

27  13  28  13,29  13 

30  13 

8 

23 

23  17  24  16 

25  16 

26  16 

27  16  28  16  29  16 

M   16 

y 

21 

23  20  24  19 

25  19 

26  19 

27  19  28  19  29  19 

30  19 

b 

25 

23  22  24  22 

25  22 

26  22 

27  22  28  22  29  22 

30  22 

5 

26 

23  24 

24  24 

25  24 

26  24 

27  24 

28  24 

29  24 

30  24 

4 

V 

23  26 

24  26 

25  26 

26  26 

27  26 

28  26 

29  26 

:iO  26 

3 

?H 

23  27 

24  27 

25  27 

26  27 

27  27 

28  27 

29  27 

30  27 

2 

?M 

23  28 

24  28 

2)  2^ 

26  28 

27  28 

2S  28 

29  28 

30  28 

1 

30 

23  28 

24  2& 

25  28 

26  28 

27  28 

28  2« 

29  28 

30  m 

0 

38 


RIGHT    ASCENSION. 

(N.B.  For  Libra  add  180^  :  when  the  amount  exceeds  S60^  sub- 
tract that  sum.)  f 


Aries,  with  Nora  Latitude.— jM*ra  with  South  LaUtude. 

h 

0 

• 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

d.,|d.  m. 

u|o  0 

D   M. 

D.  If.|  O.  M. 

D.  M. 

O.  M. 

D.  M. 

D.  M. 

359  37 

359  13  358  49 

:J58  25 1358  1 

357  37 

357  13 

1 

0  55 

0  0 

0  8 

359  44 

359  20 

358  58 

[358  32 

358  8 

2 

1  50 

1  27 

1  3 

0  39 

0  15 

359  51 

359  27 

359  3 

3 

2  45 

2  22 

1  58 

1  34 

1  10 

0  46 

0  22 

359  58 

4 

3  40 

3  17 

2  53 

2  29 

2  5 

1  41 

1  17 

0  53 

5 

4  35 

4  12 

348 

3  24'  3  0 

2  36 

2  12 

1  48 

b\l   5  30 

5  7 

4  43 

4  19 

3  55 

3  3i 

3  7 

243 

7 

6  25 

6  2 

5  38 

6  14 

4  50 

4  26 

4  2 

3  38 

8 

7  21 

6  57 

6  33 

6  9 

5  45 

5  21 

4  57 

4  32 

9 

8  16 

7  52 

7  28 

7  4 

6  40 

6  16 

5  52 

5  28 

10 

9  11 

8  47 

8  23 

7  59 

7  35 

7  11 

6  47 

6  23 

11 

10  6 

942 

9  18 

8  55 

8  31 

8  7 

7  43 

7  19 

12 

11  2 

10  38 

10  14 

9  51 

9  27 

9  3 

8  39 

8  15 

13 

n  57 

11  33 

11  9 

10  46 

10  22 

9  58 

9  34 

9  10 

14 

12  53 

12  29 

12  5 

11  42 

11  18 

10  54 

10  30 

10  6 

15 
16 

13  48 

13  25 

13  1 

12  38 

12  14 

11  50 

11  26 

11  2 

14  44 

14  20 

13  57 

IS  34 

iJj  id 

U  46  12  22 

11^ 

17 

15  40 

15  16 

14  53 

14  30 

14  6 

13  42 

13  18 

12  54 

18 

16  31 

16  12 

15  49 

15  26 

15  2 

14  39 

14  15 

13  51 

19 

17  35 

17  8 

16  45 

16  22 

15  58 

15  35 

15  11 

14  47 

20 

18  27 

18  4 

17  41 

17  18 

16  54 

16  31 

16  7 

15  44 

21 

19  23 

19  0 

18  37 

18  14 

17  51 

17  28 

17  4 

16  41 

22 

20  20 

19  56 

19  33 

19  U 

18  48 

18  25 

1&  1 

17  38 

23 

21  16 

20  53 

20  30 

20  B 

19  45 

19  22 

18  58 

18  35 

24 

22  12 

21  50 

21  27 

21  5 

20  42 

20  19 

19  55 

19  32 

25 

23  9 

22  47 

22  24 

22  2 

21  39 

21  16 

20  52 

20  29 

26 

©4  6 

23  44 

23  21 

22  59 

22  36 

22  13 

21  50 

512^ 

27 

25  2 

24  41 

24  19 

28  57 

23  34 

23  11 

22  48 

22  25 

28 

25  59 

25  38 

25  16 

24  54 

24  31 

24  9 

23  46 

28  23 

29 

26  57 

26  35 

26  18 

25  51 

25  29 

25  7 

24  44 

24  21 

30 

27  54 

27  33 

27  11 

26  49 

26  27 

26  5 

25  42 

35  19 

34 


RIGHT    ASCENSION. 
(N.B.  For  Seorpy*  add  I8O0. 


Taurus  with  North  Latitude. — Scorpio  with 

South  Latitude. 

• 

0 

0 

0 

0    0 

0 

0 

0 

1 

2 

3 

4    5 

6 

7 

IT 

D.  M.I 

D.  M. 

D.  «. 

D.  If. 

D.  M.  D.  M. 

D.  M. 

D.  M. 

0 

27  54 

27  33 

27  11 

26  49 

26  27 

26  5 

'25  42 

25  19 

1 

28  51 

28  30  28  8 

127  47 

27  25 

27  3 

26  40 

26  17 

2 

29  49 

29  27 

29  6 

28  45 

28  23 

28  1 

27  38 

27  16 

a 

30  46 

30  25 

30  4 

29  43 

29  21 

28  59 

28  37 

28  15 

4 

31  44 

31  23 

31  2 

30  41 

30  19 

29  58 

29  36 

29  14 

5 

32  42 

32  21 

32  0|31  39 

31  18 

30  57 

30  35 

30  13 

6| 

33  40  33  20 

32  59 

32  38;32  17 

31  56 

31  34 

31  12 

7 

34  38  34  18 

33  58 

33  37 

33  16 

32  55 

32  33 

32  12 

8 

35  37  35  17 

34  57 

34  36 

34  15 

33  54 

33  33 

33  12 

9 

36  36  36  16 

35  56 

35  36 

35  15 

34  54 

34  33 

34  12 

10 

37  34I37  15 

36  55'36  35'36  15 

35  54 

35  33 

35  12 

Ti 

38  33 

38  14 

37  54137  35 

37  15 

36  54 

36  33 

36  13 

12 

39  a3 

40  32 

39  14 

38  54138  35 

38  15 

37  55 

37  34 

37  14 

13 

40  13 

39  54  39  35 

39  15 

38  56 

38  35 

38  15 

14 

41  31 

41  13 

40  54  40  35 

40  16 

39  57 

39  36 

39  16 

15 
16 

42  31 

42  13 

41  54  41  36 

41  17 

40  58 

40  38 

40  18 

43"*3T 

43  13 

42  54 

42  36 

42  18 

41  59  41  39  41  19  1 

17 

44  31 

44  13 

43  55 

43  37 

43  19 

43  0  42  40 

42  21 

18 

45  31 

45  14 

44  56 

44  38 

44  20 

44  1  43  42 

43  23 

19 

46  32 

46  14 

45  57 

45  39 

45  21 

45  3:44  44 

44  25 

20| 

47  32 

47  15 

46  58 

46  40 

46  23 

46  5*45  46 

45  28 

211 

48  33 

48  16 

47  59 

47  42 

47  25 

47  7  46  49146  31  | 

22  49  34 

49  17 

49  0 

48  44 

48  27 

48  9 

47  52 

47  34 

23  50  35 

50  18 

50  2 

49  46 

49  29 

49  12 

48  55 

48  37 

24  51  36 

51  20 

51  4 

50  48 

50  32 

50  15 

49  58 

49  41 

25||52  38 

52  22 

52  6 

51  51 

51  35 

51  18 

51  2 

50  45 

26 

53  40 

53  24 

53  9 

5T55 

52  38 

52  22 

52  6i5l  49  I 

27 

54  42 

54  27 

54  12 

53  57 

53  42 

53  25 

53  IG 

52  54 

28 

55  44 

55  29 

55  15 

55  0 

54  45 

54  30 

54  U 

53  58 

29 

56  46 

56  32 

56  18 

56  3 

55  49 

55  34 

55  18 

55  3 

30 

52  48 

57  35 

57  21 

57  7 

56  53 

56  38 

56  23 

56  8 

35 


RIGHT    ASCENSION. 
(N.B.  For  Sagittary  add  IdO^.) 


Geimm  with  North  Latitude.^^a^/ary  with 

South  Latitude. 

lo 

0 

0 

0 

0 

1  ^ 

0 

0 

1 

2 

3 

4 

1  5 

6 

7 

D.llo.  M. 

0||57  48 

D.  M. 

D.  M. 

D.  M. 

D.  M.  D.  M. 

D.  M. 

O.  M. 

57  35 

57  21 

57  7 

56  53 

|56  38 

56  23 

56  8 

1  58  51 

58  38 

58  24 

58  10 

57  57 

57  42 

57  28 

57  13 

2  59  53 

59  41 

59  27 

59  14 

59  1 

58  47 

58  33 

58  19 

3  60  56 

60  44 

60  31 

60  18 

60  5 

59  52 

59  38 

59  25 

4  61  59 

61  47 

61  35 

61  22 

61  10 

60  57 

60  44 

60  31 

5  63  3 

62  51 

62  39 

62  27 

62  15 

62  2 

61  50 

61  37 

6 

64  6 

63  55 

63  43 

63  32i63  20 

63  8 

62  56 

62  44 

7 

65  9 

64  59 

64  47 

64  37 

64  25 

64  13 

64  2 

63  50 

8 

66  13 

66  3 

65  52 

65  42 

65  30 

65  19 

65  8 

64  56 

9 

67  17 

67  7 

66  57 

66  47 

66  36 

66  25 

66  14 

66  3 

10 

68  21 

68  11 

68  2 

67  52 

67  42 

67  31 

67  21 

67  10 

11 

69  25 

69  16 

69  7 

68  57 

68  48 

68  38  68  28 

68  18 

12 

70  29 

70  21 

70  12 

70  3 

69  54 

69  45 

69  35 

69  26 

13 

71  34 

71  26 

71  17 

71  9 

71  0 

70  51 

70  42 

70  33 

14 

72  38 

72  31 

72  22  72  15 

72  6 

71  58 

71  49 

71  41 

15 

73  43 

73  36 

73  28  73  21 

73  13 

73  5 

72  57 

72  49 

16] 

74  47 

74  41 

74  33 

74  27 

74  19 

74  12 

74  4 

73  57 

17 

75  52 

75  46 

75  39 

75  33 

75  26 

75  19 

75  12 

75  5 

18 

76  57 

76  51 

76  45 

76  39 

76  as 

76  27 

76  20 

76  14 

19 

78  2 

77  56 

77  51, 

77  45 

77  40 

77  34 

77  28 

77  22 

20 

79  7 

79  2 

78  57 

78  52 

78  47 

78  41 

78  36 

78  30 

21 

80  12 

80  8 

80  3 

79  59 

79  54 

79  49 

79  44 

79  39 

22 

81  17 

81  13 

81  9 

81  5 

80  1 

80  56 

80  52 

80  48 

23 

82  22 

82  18 

82  15 

82  11 

82  8 

82  4 

82  0 

81  57 

24 

83  28 

83  24 

63  21 

83  18 

83  15 

83  11 

83  9 

83  6 

25 

84  33 

84  30 

84  27 

84  25 

84  22 

84  20 

84  17 

84  15 

26 

85  38 

85  36 

85  33 

85  32 

fe6  3d 

85  28 

85  25 

85  24 

27 

86  44 

86  42 

86  40 

86  39 

86  37 

86  36 

86  34 

86  33 

28 

87  49 

87  48 

87  46 

87  46 

87  44 

87  44 

87  42 

87  42 

29 

88  55 

88  54 

88  53 

88  53 

88  52 

88  52 

88  51 

88  51 

30 

90  0 

90  0 

90  0 

90  0 

90  0 

90  0 

90  0 

90  0 

36 

RIGHT   ASCENSION. 

(N.B.  For  Capricorn  add  180«). 


Cancer  with  North  Latitude.— CSipnoom  with  South   Latitude. 

0 

0 

1   • 

0 

0 

0   1    0 

5   !   6 

1   0 

1  0 

1 

1   2 

3 

4 

1   7 

it,  i  0.  M. 

D   M. 

D.  H. 

O.  M. 

D.  M. 

D.  M. 

D.  M. 

D.  M 

o| 

90  0 

90  0 

90  U 

90  0 

90  0 

90  0 

90  0 

90  0 

1 

91  5 

91  6 

91  7 

91  7 

91  7 

M  8 

91  9,  91  9| 

2 

92  11 

92  12 

92  14 

92  14 

92  15 

92  10 

92  18 

92  18 

3 

93  IS 

93  18 

93  20 

93  21 

93  23 

93  24 

93  26 

93  27 

4 

94  22 

94  24 

94  27 

94  28 

94  30 

94  32 

94  35 

94  36 

5 
6 

95  27 

96  30 

95  33 

95  35 

95  38 

95  40l  95  43 

95  45 

96  32 

96  30 

"96^ 

96  42 

96  45 

i6  48 

96  51 

96  54 

7 

97  38 

97  42 

97  45 

97  49 

97  5S 

97  66 

98  0 

98  3 

8 

98  43 

98  47 

98  51 

98  55 

99  0 

99  4 

99  8 

99  12 

9 

99  48 

99  52 

99  57 

100  1 

100  7 

too  12^ 

100  16 

100  21 

10 

100  53 

100  58 

101  3 

101  8 

101  14 

101  19 

lO'l  24 

101  30 

11 

101  58 

102  4 

102  9 

102  15 

10^21 

mn^ 

ms2 

102  38 

12 

103  3 

103  9 

103  15 

103  21 

103  27 

103  33 

103  40 

103  46 

13 

lp4  8 

104  !4 

104  21 

104  V 

104  34 

104  41 

104  38 

104  55 

14 

105  13 

105  19 

105  27 

105  33 

105  41 

i05  48 

105  56 

106  3 

15 

106  17 

106  24 

106  33 

106  39 

106  47 

106  65 

107  3 

107  11 

16 

107  22 

107  29 

107  38 

107  45 

107  58 

io^  i 

168  11 

108  19 

17 

108  26 

108  34 

108  43 

108  5^ 

108  59 

109  9 

109  18 

109  27 

18 

109  31 

109  39 

109  48 

109  57 

110  5 

110  15, 

110  25 

110  34 

19 

no  35 

ilO  44 

110  53 

111  3 

ill  12 

111  22 

Hi  32 

111  42 

20 

111  39 

ill  49 

111  58 

112  8 

1112  18 

112  2» 

112  3;5 

112  50 

21 

112  43 

112  53 

113  3 

113  13 

113  24 

113  35 

113  461 

113  56 

22 

113  47 

113  57 

114  8 

114  18 

114  30 

114  41 

114  52 

115  4 

23 

li4  51 

115  1 

115  13 

115  23 

115  35 

115  47 

115  58 

116  10 

24 

115  54 

116  5 

116  17 

116  28 

116  41 

116  52 

iir  4 

117  17 

25 

26 

116  57 

117  9 

117  21 

117  33 

117  46 

117  58 

118  10 

118  23 

118  1 

118  19 

118  25 

118  38 

118  51 

119  3  119  16 

119  29 

27 

119  4 

119  16 

119  29 

119  42 

119  55 

120  8  120  22 

120  35 

28 

120  7 

120  19 

120  3- 

120  46 

120  59 

121  13  121  27 

121  41 

29 

121  9 

121  22 

121  36 

121  50 

122  3 

122  18  122  32 

122  47 

30 

122  12 

122  25 

122  39 

122  53 

123  7 

123  22  123  37 

123  52 

37 


RIGHT    ASCENSION. 
(N.B.  For  Afuaritu  add  180°.) 


Leo  with  North   Latitude.— ^yuaritM  with  South  Latitude. 

0 

0 

0 

1 

0 

2 

0 

3 

:  1  I 

0 

6 

0 

7 

D.l  D.  M. 

0|l22  12 

D.  M. 

D.  M. 

0.  M. 

O.  M.,  D.  M. 

D.  U. 

1>»  M. 

122  25 

122  39 

122  53 

123  7|l23  22 

123  37 

123  521 

1 

123  14 

123  28 

123  42' 123  57 

124  a 

124  26 

124  42 

124  57 

2 

124  16 

124  31 

124  45 

125  0 

125  15 

125  30 

125  46 

126  S 

3 

125  18 

125  33 

125  48 

126  3 

126  18 

126  34 

126  50 

127  t 

4 

126  20 

126  36 

126  51 

127  6 

127  22 

127  38 

127  54 

128  11 

5 

127  22 

127  38 

127  54 

128  9 

1-28  25 

128  42 

128  58 

129  i^ 

6 

128  24 

128  40 

128  56 

129  12 

129  28 

129  45 

130  2 

130  U 

7 

129  25 

129  42 

129  58 

130  14 

130  31 

130  48 

131  5 

131  2.^ 

8 

130  26 

130  43 

131  0 

131  16 

131  33 

131  51 

132  8 

132  2t 

9 

131  27 

131  44 

132  1 

132  18 

132  35 

132  53 

133  11 

133  2i 

W 

132  28  132  45 

133  2 

133  20' 133  37 

133  55 

134  14 

134  22 

11 

133  28 

133  46 

134  3 

134  21 

134  39 

134  57 

135  16 

136  35 

12 

134  29 

134  47 

135  4 

135  22 

135  40 

135  59 

136  18 

136  37 

13 

135  29 

135  47 

136  5 

136  23 

136  41 

137  0 

137  20 

137  3S 

14 

136  29 

136  47 

137  6 

137  24 

137  42 

138  1 

138  21 

138  41 

15 

137  29 

137  47 

138  6 

138  24 

138  43 

139  2  139  22 

139  42 

16 

138  29 

138  47 

139  6 

139  25 

139  44 

140  3  140  24 

140  44 

1? 

139  28 

139  47 

140  6 

140  25 

140  46 

141  4 

141  25 

141  45 

18 

140  28 

140  46 

141  6 

141  25 

141  46 

142  5 

142  26 

142  M 

19 

141  27 

141  46 

142  6 

142  25 

142  45 

143  6 

143  27 

143  47 

20 
21 

142  26 

142  45 

143  5 

143  25 

143  45 

144  6 

144  27 

144  ^ 

143  25 

143  44 

l44  4 

144  24 

144  45 

145  6  145  27 

145  4k 

22 

144  23 

144  43 

145  3 

145  24 

145  45 

146  6  146  27 

146  48 

23 

145  82 

145  42 

146  2 

146  23 

146  44 

147  5 

147  27 

147  4( 

24 

146  20 

146  40 

147  1 

147  22 

147  43 

148  4 

148  26 

148  48 

25 

147  18 

147  39 

148  0 

148  21 

148  42 

149  3 

149  25 

149  47 

26 

I4dl6 

148  37 

148  58 

149  19  149  411 

150  2 

150  24  150  461 

27 

149  14 

149  35 

149  56 

150  17 

150  39 

151  1 

151  23 

151  45 

28 

150  11 

150  33 

150  54 

151  15 

151  37 

151  59 

152  22 

152  44 

29 

151  9 

151  30 

151  52 

152  13 

152  35 

152  57 

153  20 

153  43 

30j 

152  6 

152  27 

152  49 

153  11 

153  33 

153  55 

154  18 

154  41 

38 


RIGHT 
(N.B.  For  Pisoea  add  ISO'' 


ASCENSION. 

:  if  the  amount  exceeds  360*  subtract 
that  sum.) 


Firgo  with  North  Latitude.— Pwcm  with  South  Latitude. 

!•. 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

D.J  O.  M. 

0||l52  6 

O.  M. 

O.  M.  O.  M. 

D.  M 

0.  M. 

D.  M. 

D.  M. 

152  27 

152  49|l53  11 

153  33|153  55 

154  18 

154  41 

1 

1)153  4 

153  25 

153  47  j  154  9  154  31 

154  53 

155  16 

155  3t 

2 

154  1 

154  22 

154  44 

155  6  155  29 

155  51 

156  14 

156  37 

3 

154  58 

155  19 

155  41 

156  3  156  26 

156  49 

157  12 

157  35 

4 

155  54 

156  16 

156  39 

157  1  157  24 

157  47 

158  10 

158  33 

5 

156  51 

157  13 

157  36 

157  58  158  21 

158  44 

159  8 

159  31 

6 

157  48 

158  10 

158  33 

158  55 

159  18 

159  41 

160  5 

160  21^ 

7 

158  44 

159  7 

159  30 

159  51 

160  15 

160  38 

161  2 

161  2t 

8 

159  40 

160  4 

160  27 

160  49 

161  12 

161  35 

161  59 

162  ac 

9 

160  37 

161  0 

161  23 

161  46 

162  9 

162  32 

162  56 

163  li 

10 

161  33 

161  56 

162  19 

162  42 

163  6 

163  29 

163  53 

164  1( 

11 

162  29 

162  52 

163  15 

163  38 

164  2 

164  25 

164  49 

165  i: 

12 

163  25 

163  50 

164  11 

164  34 

164  58 

165  21 

165  45 

166  i 

13 

164  20 

164  44 

165  7 

165  30 

165  54 

166  18 

166  42 

1&7  i 

14 

165  16 

165  40 

166  3 

166  26 

166  50 

167  14 

167  38 

168  2 

15 

166  12 

166  35 

166  59 

167  22 

167  46 

168  10 

168  34 

168  58 

16 

167  7  167  3J 

167  55 

168  18 

168  42 

169  6 

169  30 

159  5^ 

17 

168  3 

168  27 

168  51 

169  14 

169  38 

170  2 

170  26 

170  5€ 

18 

168  58 

169  23 

169  46 

170  9 

170  33 

170  57171  21 

171  41 

19 

169  54 

170  18 

170  42 

171  5 

171  29 

171  53  172  17 

172  41 

20 
21 

170  49 

171  13 

171  37 

172  1 

172  25 

172  49  173  13 

173  37 

171  44 

172  8 

173  3 

172  32 

172  56 

173  20 

173  44 

174  8 

174  3'^ 

22 

172  39 

173  27 

173  51 

174  15 

174  39 

175  3 

175  27 

23 

173  35 

173  58 

174  22 

J  74  46 

175  10 

175  34 

175  58 

176  22 

24 

174  30 

174  53 

175  17 

175  4] 

176  5 

176  29 

176  53 

177  i; 

26 

175  25 

175  48 

176  12 

176  36 

177  0 

177  24 

177  48 

178  12 

26 

176  20 

176  43 

'177  7 

177  31 

177  56 

178  19 

178  43 

IT'd  7 

27 

177  15 

177  38 

178  2 

178  26 

178  50 

179  14 

179  38 

180  2 

28 

178  10 

178  33 

178  57 

179  21 

179  45 

180  9 

180  33 

180  57 

29 

179  5 

179  28 

179  52 

180  16 

180  40 

181  4 

181  28 

181  52 

30 

180  0 

180  23 

180  47 

181  11 

181  35 

181  59 

182  23 

182  47 

39 


RIGHT    ASCENSION. 
(N.B.  For  Aries  subtract  I8O0.) 


Libra  with  Ntn-th  Latitude.^^rie8  with  South  Latitude. 

0 
0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

:  1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

D.   P.  M. 

D.  M. 

D.  M. 

D.  M. 

D.  M. 

D.  M. 

D.  M. 

1  0.  If. 

0  180  0 

180  23 

180  47 

181  11 

181  351181  59|182  23|182  47| 

1 

180  55 

181  18 

181  42 

182  6 

182  30 

182  54 

183  18 

183  42 

2 

181  50 

182  13 

182  37 

183  1 

183  25 

183  49 

184  13 

184  37 

3 

182  45 

183  8 

183  32 

183  56 

184  20 

184  44 

185  8 

185  32 

4 

183  40 

184  3 

184  27 

184  51 

185  15 

185  39 

186  3 

186  27 

5 

184  35 

184  58 

185  22 

185  46 

186  10 

186  34 

186  58 

187  22 

6 

185  30,185  54 

186  18 

186  42 

187  6 

187  30 

187  53 

188  17 

7 

186  25 

186  49 

187  13 

187  37 

188  1 

188  25 

188  48 

189  IS 

8 

187  21 

187  44 

188  8 

188  32 

188  56 

189  20 

189  43 

190  7 

9 

188  16 

188  39 

189  3 

189  27 

189  51 

190  15 

190  38 

191  2 

10 

189  11 

189  34  189  58 

190  22 

190  46 

191  10 

191  33 

191  57 

U 

190  6 

190  29 

190  53  191  17 

191  41 

192  5 

192  28 

192  52 

12 

191  2 

191  25 

191  48  192  13 

192  36 

193  0 

193  23 

193  47 

13 

191  57 

192  20 

192  43  193  8 

193  31 

193  55 

194  18 

194  41 

14 

192  53 

193  16 

193  391194  3 

194  26 

194  50 

195  13 

195  36 

15 

193  48 

194  12 

194  35 

194  58 

195  21 

195  45  196  8 

196  31 

16 

194  44 

195  7 

195  30 

195  53 

196  16 

196  40 

197  3 

197  26 

17 

195  40 

196  2 

196  25 

196  48 

197  11 

197  35 

197  58 

198  21 

18 

196  35 

196  58 

197  21 

197  44 

198  7 

198  30 

198  53 

199  IC 

19 

197  31 

197  54 

198  17 

198  40 

199  2 

199  25 

199  48 

200  11 

20 
21 

198  27 

198  50 

119  13 

199  36 

199  58 

200  21 

200  43 

201  7 

199  23 

199  46 

200  9 

200  32 

200  54 

201  16 

20139 

202  2 

22 

200  20 

200  42 

201  5 

201  28 

201  50 

202  12 

202  34 

202  57 

23 

201  16 

201  38 

202  1 

202  24 

202  46 

203  8 

203  30 

203  52 

24 

202  12 

202  35 

202  57 

203  20 

203  42 

204  4 

204  26 

204  48 

2d 

203  9 

203  31 

203  53 

204  16 

204  38 

205  0 

205  21 

205  43 

26 

204  6 

204  29 

204  50 

205  12 

205  34 

205  56 

206  17 

206  39 

27 

205  2 

205  25 

205  47 

206  9 

206  30 

206  52 

207  13 

207  3S 

28 

205  59 

206  22 

206  43 

207  5 

207  26 

207  48 

208  9 

208  30 

29 

206  57 

207  19 

207  40 

208  1 

208  22 

208  44 

209  5 

209  26 

30 

207  54 

208  16 

208  37 

208  58  209  19] 

209  40 

210  1 

210  22 

40 


HIGHT    ASCENSION. 
(N.B.  For  T^Mttrug  wbtract  180>.) 


Scorpio  with  AbrM  Latitude.— r«iin»  wHh  SeutJ^  LaHtnde. 

0 

0 

I  1      I 

Q 

0       0 

3  f  6 

• 

0 

1 

4 

7 

D.J  fi.  M. 

D   M. 

O.  Mi  D.  M. 

».  U  \    9.     U 

B.  u. 

O.  11* 

u 

1207  54 

208  16 

288  37  268  5b 

209  19' 209  40  210  i 

210  22 

211  18 

1 

!208  51 

209  13 

209  34 

209  55  210  16 

210  37 

216  57 

2|;209  49 

210  10 

210  31 

210  52  211  13 

211  M 

211  54 

212  14 

3  210  46 

211  17 

211  28 

211  49  212  10 

212  31 

212  51 

213  11 

4  211  44 

212  5 

212  25 

212  46 

213  7 

213  27 

213  47 

214  7 

5  212  42213  3 

213  23  213  43 

214  4 

214  24 

214  44 

215  4 

6i|2i3  40 

214  1 

214  21 

214  41 

215  I 

215  21 

215  41 

2i6  i 

7 

214  38 

214  59 

215  19 

215  39 

215  66 

216  18 

216  38 

216  57 

8 

215  37 

215  57 

216  17 

216  37 

216  56 

217  15 

217  35 

217  54 

9 

216  36 

216  56 

217  15 

217  35 

217  54 

218  13 

218  32 

218  51 

10 

217  34 

217  54 

218  13 

218  33 

218  52 

219  a 

219  29 

219  48 

11 

21»  33 

218  53 

219  12 

219  31 

219  50 

220  9 

220  27 

220  43 

12 

219  33 

219  52 

220  11 

220  30 

220  48 

221  7 

221  25 

221  43 

13 

220  32 

220  51 

221  10 

221  28 

221  46 

222  5 

222  23 

222  41 

14 

221  31 

221  50 

222  9 

222  27 

222  45 

223  3 

223  21 

223  39 

16 1222  31 

222  50 

223  8 

223  26 

223  44 

224  2 

224  19 

224  37 

16  223  31 

223  49 

224  7  224  25 

224  43 

225  0,22o  17 

225  35 

17  224  31 

224  49 

225  6 

225  24 

225  42 

225  59  226  15 

226  33 

18  225  31 

225  49 

226  6 

226  23 

226  41 

226  58  227  14 

227  31 

19  226  38 

226  49 

227  6 

227  23 

227  40 

227  57  228  13 

228  29 

20  227  38 

227  49 

228  6 

228  23 

228  39 

228  56  229  12 

229  28 

21 

i28^ 

228  50 

ni   6 

929  23 

229  39 

229  55 

230  Jl 

230  27 

22 

^29  34 

229  50 

230  6 

230  23 

230  38 

230  54 

231  10 

231  25 

23 

230  35 

230  51 

231  6 

231  23 

231  38 

231  53 

232  9 

232  24 

24 

231  36 

231  52 

232  7 

232  23 

232  38 

232  53 

233  8 

233  23 

25 

232  38 

232  53 

233  8 

233  24 

233  38 

233  53 

234  8 

234  22 

26 

233  40 

2S3  66 

ti34  i 

234  24 

234  38 

234  5:^  235  7 

235  ai 

27 

234  41 

234  57 

235  11 

235  25 

235  39 

235  53 

236  7 

236  21 

28 

236  43 

235  58 

236  12 

236  26 

236  40 

236  54 

237  7 

237  20 

29 

236  46 

237  0 

237  14 

237  27 

237  41 

237  54 

238  7 

238  20 

30 

257  48 

238  2 

238  15 

238  29 

238  42 

238  55 

239  7 

238  20 

41 


RIGHT    ASCENSION. 
(N.B.  For  GemUd  subtract  I8O0.) 


SagUtary  with  North  Latitude.— Gmim  witk  South  Latitude. 

0 

1  0 

0 
1 

• 
2 

0 
3 

0 
4 

0 
5 

0 
6 

• 
7 

O.ll  D.  U. 

D   M. 

D.  M.   D.  M. 

D.  M 

D.  11 

D.  Jl. 

D.  M. 

ul 

1237  48 

238  2 

238  15  238  29 

238  42 

238  55  239  7 

239  20 

1 

1238  51 

239  4 

239  1/ 

239  30  239  43 

239  55 

240  7 

240  20 

2y239  53 

240  6 

240  19 

240  31,240  44 

240  56 

241  8 

241  20 

3P24O  56 

241  9 

241  21 

241  33  241  45 

241  57 

242  9 

242  21 

4||241  59 

242  11 

242  23 

242  35  242  4b 

242  58 

243  9 

243  21 

51I243  3 

243  14 

243  25  243  37 1 243  48 

243  59 

244  10 

244  21 

61244  6 

244  17 

244  28 

244  39,244  50 

245  1 

245  i\ 

245  22 

7 

245  9 

245  20 

245  31 

245  41 

245  52 

246  2 

246  12 

246  22 

8 

246  13 

246  23 

246  34 

246  44 

246  54 

247  4 

247  13 

247  23 

9 

247  17 

247  27 

247  37 

247  47 

247  56 

248  6 

248  15 

248  24 

10 

248  21 

248  30 

248  40 

248  49 

248  58 

249  7 

249  16 

249  25 

250  26 

11 

1M9  25 

249  34 

249  43 

249  52 

250  0 

250  9 

250  17 

12 

250  20 

250  38 

250  46 

250  55 

251  3 

251  U 

251  19 

251  27 

13 

251  34 

•251  42 

251  49 

251  58 

252  5 

252  13 

262  21 

262  28 

14 

252  38 

252  46 

252  53 

253  1 

253  8 

253  15 

253  23 

253  30 

15 

253  43 

253  50 

253  57 

254  4 

254  11 

254  18 

254  25 

254  32 

16 

254  47 

254  54 

255  1 

255  7 

255  14 

255  20  255  27 

255  33 

17 

255  52 

255  58 

256  5 

256  11 

256  17 

256  22  256  29 

256  35 

18 

256  57 

257  3 

257  9 

257  15 

257  20 

257  25  267  31 

267  37 

19 

258  2 

258  7 

258  13 

258  18 

258  23 

258  28  258  33 

258  38 

20' 

I259  7 

259  12 

259  17 

259  21 

259  26 

259  31  259  35 

259  40 

21 

260  12 

260  17 

260  21 

2t)0  25 

260  29 

260  34 

260  38 

260  42 

22 

261  17 

261  21 

261  25 

261  28 

261  32 

261  36 

261  40 

261  44 

23 

262  22 

262  25 

262  29 

262  32 

262  35 

262  39 

262  42 

262  46 

24 

263  28 

263  30 

263  33 

263  36 

263  39 

263  42 

263  45 

263  48 

25 

264  33 

264  36 

264  37 

264  40 

264  42 

264  45 

264  47 

264  50 

26|265  381 

265  40 

265  41 

265  44 

265  45 

265  48 

265  49 

265  52 

27 

266  44 

266  45 

266  46 

266  48 

266  49 

266  51 

266  52 

266  54 

28 

267  49 

267  50 

267  50 

267  52 

267  52 

267  54 

267  54 

267  56 

29 

268  55 

268  55 

268  55 

268  56 

268  56 

268  57 

268  57  268  58 

30 

270  0 

270  0 

270  0 

270  0 

270  0 

270  0 

270  0  270  0 

42 


RIGHT    ASCENSION. 

(N.B.  For  Cancer  subtract  180«.) 


Ca^Htom  with  Nvrth  LatUude.— Cancer  with  South  Latitude. 

t 

1 

0 

2 

0 

a 

0 

4 

0 

5 

0 

6 

0 

7 

D.   D.  M. 

0  270  0 

D.  M. 

D.  M. 

D.  M. 

D.  M. 

D.  M. 

D.  M. 

D.  M. 

270  0 

270  0 

270  0|270  0|270  0|270  0|270  Cj 

1 

271  5 

27J  5 

271  6 

271  4 

271  4 

271  3 

271  3 

271  5 

2 

272  11 

272  10 

272  10 

272  8 

272  8 

272  6 

272  6 

272  4 

3 

273  16 

273  J  5 

273  14 

273  12 

273  11 

273  9 

273  8 

273  i 

4 

274  22 

274  20 

274  19 

274  16 

274  15 

274  12 

274  11 

274  J 

5 

275  27 

275  25 

275  23 

275  20 

275  18 

275  15 

275  13 

275  U 

6 

276  32  276  30 

276  27 

276  21 

276  21 

276  18 

276  15 

276  15 

7 

277  38 

277  35 

277  31 

277  28 

277  25 

277  21 

277  18 

277  14 

8 

278  43 

278  39 

278  35 

278  32 

278  28 

278  24 

278  20 

278  IC 

9 

279  48 

279  43 

279  39 

279  35 

279  31 

279  26 

279  22 

279  1€ 

10 

280  53 

280  48 

280  43 

280  391280  34 

280  29 

280  25 

280  2C 

11 

281  58 

281  53 

281  47^281  42 

281  37 

281  32 

281  27 

281  % 

12 

283  3 

282  57 

282  511282  45 

282  40 

282  34 

282  29 

282  2^ 

13 

284  8 

284  2 

283  55  283  49 

283  43 

283  37 

283  31 

283  25 

14 

285  13 

285  6 

284  59  284  53 

284  46 

284  40 

284  33 

284  27 

15 

286  17 

286  10  286  3 1284  56 

285  49 

285  42 

285  35 

285  2E 

W 

287  22 

287  14 

287  7 

286  59 

286  52 

286  45 

286  37 

286  3C 

17 

288  26 

288  18 

288  11 

288  2 

287  55 

287  47 

287  39 

287  35 

18 

289  31 

289  22 

289  14 

289  5 

288  57 

288  49 

288  41 

288  32 

19 

290  35 

290  26 

290  17 

290  8 

299  0 

289  51 

289  43 

289  34 

20 
^1 

291  39 

291  30 

291  20 

291  11 

299  2 

280  53 

290  44 

290  35 

292  48 

292  33 

292  23 

292  13 

292  4 

291  55 

291  45 

291  3( 

22 

293  47 

293  37 

293  26 

293  16 

293  6 

292  56 

292  47 

292  37 

23 

294  51 

294  40 

294  29 

294  19 

294  8 

293  58 

293  48 

293  38 

24 

295  54 

295  43 

295  32 

295  21 

295  10 

294  59 

294  49 

294  3C 

25 
26 

296  57 

296  46 

296  35 

296  23 

296  12 

296  1295  50 

295  3S 

298  1 

297  49 

297  37 

297  25 

297  14 

297  2 

296  51 

296  39 

'^7 

299  4 

298  51 

298  39 

298  27 

298  15 

298  3 

297  51 

297  39" 

28 

300  7 

299  54 

299  41 

299  29 

299  16 

299  4 

298  52 

298  4C 

29 

301  9 

300  56 

300  43 

300  30 

300  17 

300  5 

299  53 

299  4( 

30 

302  12 

301  58 

301  45 

301  31'30l  181 

301  5 

300  53 

300  4k 

43 


RIGHT    ASCENSION. 
(N.B.  For  Leo  subtract  18(^.) 


Aquarius  with  North  Latitude.— Xeo  with  South  Latitude. 

1  0     1 

1  ^ 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

1   2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

D.ll  D.  M.  D.  M. 

011302  12  301  58 

D.  M. 

D.  M. 

Id.  m.i  d.  m. 

1  D.  M 

D.  M. 

301  45 

301  31|30J  18|30I  5|300  63 

300  4Q 

1 

303  14 

303  0 

302  47 

302  33 

302  19 

302  6 

301  53 

301  40 

2 

304  16 

304  2 

303  48 

303  34 

303  20 

303  6 

302  53 

302  41 

3 

305  18 

305  3 

304  50 

304  35 

304  21 

304  7 

303  53 

303  39 

4 

306  20 

306  & 

305  51 

305  36 

305  22 

305  7 

304  53 

304  39 

5 

307  22 

307  7 

306  52 

306  36 

306  22 

306  7 

305  52 

305  38 

6 

308  24 

308  8 

307  53 

307  37 

307  22 

307  7 

306  52 

306  37 

7 

309  25 

309  9 

308  54 

308  37 

308  22 

308  7 

307  51 

307  36 

8 

310  26 

310  10 

309  H 

309  37 

309  22 

309  6 

308  50 

308  35 

9 

311  27 

311  10 

310  54 

310  37 

310  21 

310  5 

309  49 

309  33 

10 

312  28  312  11 

311  54 

311  37 

311  21 

311  4 

310  48 

310  32 

11 

313  28 

313  11 

312  54  312  37 

312  20 

312  3 

311  47 

311  31 

12 

314  29 

314  11 

313  54  313  37 

313  19 

313  2 

312  46 

312  29 

13 

315  29 

315  11 

314  54  314  36 

314  18 

314  11313  45 

313  27 

14 

316  29 

316  11 

315  53  315  35 

315  17 

315  0!314  43 

314  25 

15 

317  29 

317  10 

316  52  316  34 

316  16 

315  58  315  41 

315  23 

16 

318  29 

318  10 

317  51 

317  33 

317  15 

316  57 

316  39 

316  21 

17 

319  28 

319  9 

318  50 

318  32 

218  14 

317  55 

317  37 

317  19 

18 

320  27 

320  8 

319  49 

319  30 

319  12 

318  53 

318  35 

318  17 

19 

321  27 

321  7 

320  48 

320  29 

320  10 

319  51 

319  33 

319  15 

20 
21 

322  26 

322  6 

321  47 

321  27 

321  8 

320  49  380  31 

320  12 

323  26 

323  4 

322  45 

322  25 

322  6 

321  47 

321  28 

321  9 

22 

324  23 

324  3 

323  43 

323  23 

323  4 

322  45 

322  25 

322  6 

23 

325  22 

325  1 

324  41 

324  21 

324  1 

323  42 

323  22 

323  3 

24 

326  20 

325  59 

325  39 

325  19 

324  59 

324  39  324  19 

323  59 

25 

26 

327  18 

326  57 

326  37  326  17 

325  56 

325  3&  325  16 

325  56 

328  16 

327  55 

327  35 

327  14 

326  53 

326  33 

326  13 

325  53| 

27 

329  14 

328  53 

328  32 

328  11 

327  50 

327  30 

327  10 

326  49 

28 

330  11 

329  50 

329  29 

329  8 

328  47 

328  27 

328  6 

327  46 

29 

331  9 

330  47 

330  26 

330  5 

329  44 

329  25 

329  3 

328  4S 

30 

332  6 

331  44 

331  23 

331  2 

330  41 

330  20 

329  59v329  38l 

44 


RIGHT    ASCENSION. 
(N.B.  For  Firgo  subtract  180».) 


PUeei  with  North  Latitude.— ^tfyo  with  South  LatHude. 

1  •• 

0 

• 

0 

0 

1  0 

•   1  0 

1 

2 

3 

4 

1  6 

6   1  7 

O.N  D.  M. 

0||382  6 

D.  M. 

D.  M. 

D.  M. 

1  D.  M. 

1  r».  M. 

D.  Bf. 

D.  M 

331  44 

3'^  23 

331  21330  4l|330  20 

329  59 

329  3€ 

1 

SS3  4 

332  41 

332  20 

881  59 

331  38 

831  161330  55 

330  34 

2 

334  1 

833  38 

333  17 

882  55 

332  34 

882  12 

331  51 

331  3C 

3 

334  58 

334  35 

334  18 

883  51 

333  30 

883  8 

832  47 

332  25 

4 

336  55 

535  32 

335  10 

884  48 

334  26 

334  4 

333  43 

333  21 

5 

336  51 

336  29 

336  7 

335  44 

335  22 

385  0 

334  39 

334  17 

6 

337  48 

837  25 

837  8 

336  40 

386  18 

335  56 

335  84 

335  12 

7 

338  44 

338  22 

837  59 

337  36 

ZZ7   14 

336  52 

336  30 

336  8 

8 

339  40 

839  18 

838  55 

338  32 

888  10 

337  48 

337  26 

337  2 

9 

340  37 

840  14 

839  51 

339  28 

839  e 

338  43 

338  21 

337  58 

10 

341  33 

841  10 

840  47 

340  24 

840  2 

339  39 

339  17 

338  54 

TT 

342  29 

842  6 

341  431341  20 

340  58 

340  35 

340  12 

339  4S 

12 

343  25 

343  2 

842  39|842  16 

341  53 

341  30 

341  7 

340  44 

13 

344  20 

843  58 

843  35 

843  12 

842  49 

342  25 

342  2 

341  3S 

14 

345  16 

844  53 

844  30 

344  7 

843  44 

343  20 

342  57 

342  34 

15 

346  12 

845  48 

845  25  845  2 

844  3d 

344  15 

343  52 

343  29 

344  24 

16 

347  7 

846  44 

346  21 

345  57 

345  34 

345  10 

344  47 

17 

348  3 

847  40 

347  17 

346  52 

346  29 

346  6 

345  42 

345  19 

18 

348  58 

848  35 

848  12 

347  47 

847  24 

347  0 

346  37 

346  13 

19 

349  54 

849  31 

349  7 

348  43 

848  19 

347  55 

347  32 

347  8 

20 
21 

350  49 

350  26 

350  3 

349  38 

849  14 

348  50 

348  27 

348  2 

351  44 

351  21 

350  57 

350  33 

350  9 

349  45,349  22 

348  5f 

22 

352  39 

352  16 

351  52 

351  28 

351  4 

350  40350  17 

349  dc 

23 

353  35 

853  11 

352  47 

352  23 

351  59 

351  35  351  12 

350  48 

24 

354  30 

854  6 

353  42 

353  18 

852  54 

352  30:352  7 

351  43 

25 

355  25 

855  1 

354  38 

354  14 

353  50 

353  26  353  2 

352  38 

26 

356  20 

355  57 

355  33 

355  9 

354  45 

354  21(353  57 

353  3S 

27 

357  15 

356  52 

356  28 

356  4 

355  40 

355  16 

354  52 

354  28 

28 

358  10 

857  47 

357  23 

856  59 

356  35 

356  11 

355  47 

355  22 

29 

359  6 

858  42 

358  18 

357  54 

357  30 

357  6 

356  42 

356  n 

30 

360  0 

359  37 

359  18 

358  49 

368  25 

358  1 

367  37 '357  13| 

45 


TABLES  OF  ASCENSIONAL  DIFFERENCE. 


1 

5 

Latitude  or  Polar  Elbvation. 

0     1     0     1     0     1     0 

e 

0 

u 

II 

0 

I 

D.M. 

2        3    14 

5 

6 

7 

8 

9 

D.M.  D.M.  D.M. 

D.M. 

P.M. 

D.M.  D.M. 

1 

D.M. 

1 

0102030    4 

0     5 

0    6 

0    7 

0    8 

0    9 

2 

02040608 

0  10 

0  13 

0  15 

0    7 

0  19 

3 

0    30    60    90  13 

0  16 

0  19 

0  22 

025 

0  29 

4 

0    4  0    8  0  13  0  17 

0  21 

0  25 

0  30 

0  34 

0  38 

5 

0    5  0  10  0  16  0  21 

0  26 

0  32 

0  37 

0  42 

0  48 

6 

0    6 

0    13 

0  19 

0  25  0  32 

0  38 

0  44j 

0  51 

0  57 

7 

0    7 

0  15 

0  22 

0  30 

0  37 

0  44 

0  52 

0  59 

1     7 

8 

0    8 

0  17 

0  25 

0  34 

0  42 

0  51 

0  59 

1     8 

1  16 

9 

0    9 

0  19 

0  29 

0  38 

0  48 

0  57 

1    7 

I  16 

1  26 

10 

0  11 

0  21 

0  32 

0  42 

0  53 

1     4 

1  14 

1  25 

1  36 

11 

0  12 

0  23 

0  35 

0  47 

0  58 

1  10 

1  22 

1  34 

1  46 

12 

0  13 

0  25 

0  38 

0  51 

1    4 

1  17 

I  30 

1  43 

1  66 

13 

0  14 

0  28 

0  42 

0  56 

I     9 

1  23 

1  37 

1  52 

2    6 

14 

0  15 

0  30 

0  45 

1    0 

1  15 

1  31) 

1  45 

2     1 

2  16 

15 

0  16 

0  32 

0  48 

1     4 

1  21 

I  37 

1  53 

2  10 

2  2o 

ti 

0  17 

0  34 

0  62 

1    9 

1  26 

1  44 

2     1 

2  19 

2  36 

17 

0  18 

0  37 

0  55 

1  14 

1  32 

1  50 

2    9 

2  28 

2  47 

18 

0  19 

0  39 

0  59 

1  18 

1  38 

1  57 

2  17 

2  37 

2  5/ 

19 

0  21 

0  41 

1    2 

1  23 

]  44  2    4 

2  25 

2  46 

3    8 

20 

0  22 

0  44 

1     6 

1  27 

1  4912  12 

2  34 

2  56 

3  18 

21 

0  23 

0  46 

I     ^ 

1  32 

1  55 

2  19 

2  41 

[3    6 

3  29 

22 

0  24 

0  49 

1  13 

1  37 

2    2 

2  26 

2  50 

3  15 

3  40 

23 

025 

0  51 

1  17 

1  42 

2    8 

2  33 

2  59 

3  25 

3  51 

24 

0  27 

0  53 

1  20 

1  47 

2  14 

2  41 

3    9 

3  35 

4    3 

25 

0  28 

0  56 

I  24 

1  52 

2  20 

2  49 

3  17 

3  45 

4  14 

261 

\0  29 

^  59 

1  28 

1  57  2  27 

12  56 

326 

3  56 

4  26 

27 

0  31 

1     1 

1  32 

2    32  33 

'3    4 

3  85 

4    6 

4  38 

28 

|0  32 

fl    4 

1  36 

2    82  40 

3  12 

3  46'4  17 

4  30 

46 


TABLES  OF  ASCENSIONAL  DIFFERENCE. 


§ 

Latitodb  or  Polar  Elevation. 

0 

10 

0 

11 

0  1  « 
12  1  13 

0 

14 

0 

15 

e 
16 

0 

17 

e 
18 

D.M. 

D.M. 

D.M. 

D.M. 

D.M. 

D.M. 

D.M 

D.M. 

D.M. 

1 
2 
3 
4 
5 

0  Jl 

0  21 
0  32 
0  42 
0  53 

0  12 

0  23 
0  35 
0  47 

0  58 

0  13 
0  25 
0  38 

0  51 

1  4 

0  14 
0  28 
0  42 

0  56 

1  9 

0  15 
0  30 

0  45 

1  0 
I  15 

0  16 
0  32 

0  48 

1  4 
1  21 

0  17 
0  34 

0  52 

1  9 
1  26 

0  18,0  19 
0  37'0  39 

0  54  0  59 

1  14  1  18 
1  32  1  38 

6 
7 
8 
9 
10 

I  4 
1  14 
1  25 
I  36 
1  47 

1  10 
1  22 
1  35 
1  46 
1  58 

I  17 
1  30 
1  43 

1  56 

2  9 

1  23 
1  37 

1  52 

2  6 
2  20 

1  30 

1  45 

2  0 
2  16 
2  31 

1  37 

1  53 

2  9 
2  26 
2  42 

1  44 

2  1 
2  19 
2  36 
2  54 

1  50 

2  9 
2  28 

2  47 

3  5 

1  57 

2  17 
2  37 

2  57 

3  17 

11  1  58 

12  2  9 

13  2  20 

14  2  31 

15  '2  42 

2  10 
2  22 
2  31 
2  47 
2  59 

2  22 
2  35 

2  49 

3  2 
3  16 

2  34 

2  49 

3  3 
3  18 
3  33 

2  47 

3  2 
3  18 
3  34 
3  50 

2  59 

3  16 
3  33 

3  50 

4  7 

3  12 
3  30 

3  48 

4  6 
4  24 

3  24 

3  44 

4  3 
4  22 
4  42 

8  57 

3  58 

4  18 

4  39 

5  0 

1612  54 
17  8  5 
18;  3  17 

19  3  29 

20  3  41 

3  12 
3  24 
3  37 

3  50 

4  3 

3  30 
3  44 

3  68 

4  12 
4  26 

3  48 

4  3 
4  18 
4  34 
4  49 

4  6,4  24, 
4  22  4  42* 
4  39  5  0 

4  55  5  18 

5  12  5  36 

4  43  5  2 

5  25  22 
5  21 15  42 
5  40  6  3 
5  5916  24 

5  21 

5  42 

6  4 
6  26 

6  48 

21 
22 
23 
24 
25 

3  53 

4  5 
4  18 
4  30 
4  43 

4  17 
4  30 
4  44 

4  58 

5  12 

4  44 

4  56 

5  11 
5  26 
5  41 

5  5 
5  24 
5  37 

5  54 

6  11 

5  30 

5  47 

6  5 
6  23 
6  41 

5  54 

6  13 
6  32 

6  51 

7  11 

6  19 
6  39 

6  59 

7  20 
7  41 

6  45 

7  6 
7  27 

7  49 

8  12 

7  10 
7  33 

7  56 

8  19 
8  43 

26 
27 

21 

4  56 

5  9 
5  23 

5  26 
5  41 
5  56 

5  57 

6  13 
6  29 

6  28 

6  45 

7  3 

6  59 

7  18 
7  37 

7  3J 

7  51 

8  11 

8  2 
8  24 

8  46 

8  35 

8  58 

9  21 

9  7 
9  32 
9  57 

47 


TABLE  OF  ASCENSIONAL  DIFFERENCE. 


• 

Latitudb  or  Polar  Elevation. 

0 

0 

0 

0 

« 

0 

0 

0 

0 

i 

Q 

19 

20 

21 

22 

23 

24 

25 

26 

28 

D.  M. 

D.  M.|d.  M. 

D.  M 

D.  M 

D.  M 

b.  M. 

D.  M. 

1 

1  0  21 

0  22 

0  23 

0  24  0  25 

0  27 

0  28 

0  29 

0  31 

2 

0  42 

0  44 

0  46 

0  49i  0  51 

0  53 

0  56 

0  59 

1  1 

3 

1  2 

1  6 

1  9 

1  13 

1  17 

1  20 

1  24 

1  28 

1  32 

4 

1  23 

1  27 

1  32 

1  37 

1  42 

1  47 

1  52 

1  57 

2  3 

5 

1  44 

1  49 

1  55 

2  2 

2  8 

2  14 

2  20 

2  27 

2  33 

6 

2  4 

2  12 

2  19 

2  2b 

2  33 

2  41 

2  49 

2  56 

3  4 

7 

2  25 

2  34 

2  42 

2  51 

2  59 

3  8 

3  17 

3  26 

3  35 

8 

2  46 

2  56 

3  6 

3  15 

3  25 

3  35 

3  45 

3  56 

4  6 

9 

3  8 

3  18 

3  29 

3  40 

3  51 

4  3 

4  14 

4  26 

4  38 

10 

3  20 

3  41 

3  53 

3  5 

4  18 

4  30 

4  53 

4  56 

5  9 

11 

3  50 

4  3 

4  17 

4  30 

4  44 

4  58 

5  12 

5  2b 

5  41 

12 

4  12 

4  26 

4  41 

4  56 

5  11 

5  26 

5  41 

5  57 

6  13 

13 

4  34 

4  49 

5  55 

5  21 

5  38 

5  54 

6  11 

6  28 

6  45 

14 

4  56 

5  12 

5  30 

5  47 

6  5 

6  22 

6  41 

6  59 

7  18 

15 

5  18 

5  36 

5  54 

6  13 

6  32 

6  51 

7  11 

7  31 

7  51 

16 

5  40 

5  59 

6  li^ 

6  39 

6  59 

7  20 

7  41 

8  3 

8  24 

17 

6  22 

6  23 

6  44 

7  6 

7  27 

7  49 

8  12 

8  35 

8  58 

18 

6  25 

6  47 

7  10 

7  33 

7  56 

8  19 

8  43 

9  7 

9  32 

19 

6  49 

7  12 

7  36 

8  0 

8  24 

8  49  9  14 

9  49 

10  6 

20)  7  12] 

7  37 

8  2 

8  27 

8  53 

9  19  9  40 

13  14 

10  41 

21 

7  36 

8  2 

8  28 

8  55 

9  23 

9  50 

10  19 

10  47  IJ  17  1 

22 

8  0 

8  27 

8  55 

9  24 

9  53 

10  22 

10  52 

11  22 

11  53 

23 

8  24 

8  53 

9  22 

9  53 

10  23 

10  54 

il  25 

11  57 

12  29 

24 

8  49 

9  19 

9  50 

10  22 

10  54 

11  26 

11  59 

12  33 

13  7 

25 

9  14 

9  40 

10  19 

10  52 

11  25 

11  59 

12  34 

13  9 

13  45 

26 

9  40 

10  14 

10  47 

11  22 

11  57 

12  33  13  9113  46  14  24 

27 

10  6 

10  41 

11  17 

11  53 

12  26 

13  7  13  45114  23  15  3 

28 

10  33 

11  9 

11  47 

12  24  13  3 

13  4214  21  15  2  15  43 

4S 


TABLE  OF  ASCENSIONAL  DIFFERENCE. 


i 

Latitudb  or  Polar  Elevation. 

0 

11 

0 

0 

e 

0 

0 

0 

0 

z 
1 

28 

29 

30 

31 

32 

33 

34 

35 

36 

D.  M. 

D.  M. 

D.  11. 

D.  M.D.  M. 

1 

D.  M. 

D.  H. 

D.  M. 

D.  M» 

0  32 

0  33 

0  35 

0  36 

0  37 

0  39 

0  40 

0  42 

U  44 

2 

1  4 

1  7 

1  9 

1  12 

1  15 

1  18 

1  21 

1  24 

1  27 

3 

1  36 

1  40 

1  44 

1  48 

1  53 

1  57 

2  2 

2  6 

2  11 

4 

2  8 

2  13 

2  19 

2  24 

230 

2  36 

2  42 

2  48 

2  55 

5 

2  40 

2  47 

2  54 

3  1!  3  8 

3  15 

3  23 

3  31 

338 

6 

3  12 

3  20 

3  29 

3  37 

3  46 

3  55 

4  3 

4  13 

4  23 

7 

3  45 

8  54 

4  4 

4  14 

4  24 

4  34 

4  45 

4  56 

5  7 

8 

4  17 

4  28 

4  89 

4  51 

5  2 

5  14 

6  26 

5  39 

5  52 

9 

4  50 

5  2 

5  15 

5  28 

5  41 

5  54 

6  8 

6  22 

6  87 

10 

5  23 

5  38 

5  51 

6  5 

6  20 

635 

6  50 

7  9 

7  22 

11 

5  56 

6  11 

6  27 

6  42 

6  59 

7  15 

7  32 

7  49  8  7 

12 

6  29 

6  46 

7  3 

7  20 

7  38 

7  56 

8  15 

8  84  8  53 

13 

7  3 

7  21 

7  40 

7  58 

8  18 

8  87 

8  58 

9  18  9  39 

U 

7  37 

7  56 

8  17 

8  37 

8  58 

9  19 

9  41 

10  3  10  26 

15 

8  n 

8  32 

8  54 

9  16 

938 

10  1 

10  25 

10  49  11  14 

1$||  8  46 

9  8 

9  32 

9  55 

10  1& 

10  44 

11  9  11  35  12  2 

17  9  21 

9  45 

!0  10 

10  35 

11  1 

11  27 

11  54  12  22  12  54 

18  9  56 

10  23 

10  49 

11  16 

11  43 

12  11 

12  40  13  9  18  39 

19  10  53  11  0 

11  28 

11  56 

12  26 

12  55 

13  26  18  57  U  29 

20||ll  9 

11  38 

12  8 

12  88 

13  9 

13  40 

14  13  14  4f>  15  20 

21 

11  46 

12  17 

12  48 

13  20 

13  53 

14  26 

15  0 

15  3b  16  !2 

22 

12  24 

12  56 

13  29 

14  3 

14  37 

15  13 

15  49 

16  27  17  5 

23 

13  3 

13  37 

14  11 

14  47 

15  23 

16  0 

16  38 

17  17  17  58 

24 

13  42  14  171 

14  54 

15  51 

16  9 

16  48 

17  29 

18  10  18  52 

25  14  21  14  59 

15  37 

16  16  16  56 

17  38 

18  20 

19  3  19  48 

261115  2115  41 

16  21 

li    2  17  45 

18  28 

Id  12 

19  58  20  45 

20  54  21  44 

27015  43  15  24 

17  6 

17  50  18  34 

19  19 

20  6 

28'|l6  25117  8 

17  53 

18  38ll9  24  20  12l 

21  1 

21  51  22  44 

49 


TABLES  OF  ASCENSIONAL  DIFFERENCE. 


i 

Latitudb  or  Polar  Elsvation. 

*■ 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

1 

37 

38 

39 

40 

41 

42 

43 

44 

45 

D.  M. 

D.  M. 

D.  M. 

D.  H. 

D.  H. 

O.  M. 

D.  M. 

D.  M. 

1 

0  45 

0  47 

0  49 

0  50 

0  52 

0  54 

0  56 

0  58,  1  0| 

2 

1  31 

1  34 

1  37 

1  41 

1  44 

1  48 

1  52 

1  56 

2  0 

3| 

2  16 

2  21 

2  26 

2  31 

2  37 

2  42 

2  48 

2  54 

3  0 

4 

3  1 

3  8 

3  15 

3  22 

329 

8  37 

3  44 

3  52 

4  1 

5 

6 

3  47 

3  55 

4  4 

4  13 

4  22 

4  31!  4  41 

4  51 

5  1 

6  2 

4  33 

4  42 

4  53 

5  4 

5  15 

5  26 

5  37 

5  50 

7 

5  19 

5  30 

5  42 

5  55 

6  8 

6  21 

6  34 

6  49 

7  5 

8 

6  5 

6  18 

6  32 

6  46 

7  1 

7  16 

7  32 

7  48 

8  5 

9 

6  51 

7  6 

7  22 

7  38 

7  55 

8  12 

8  30 

8  48 

9  7 

10 

7  38 

7  55 

8  13 

8  30 

8  49 

9  8 

9  28 

9  48'10  9| 

11 

8  25 

8  44 

9  3 

9  23 

9  44 

lUi  5 

flO  27 

10  49 

11  12 

12 

9  13 

9  34 

9  55 

10  16 

10  39 

IIV  2 

11  26 

11  51 

12  16 

13 

10  1 

10  24 

10  46 

11  10 

11  35 

12  0 

12  26 

12  53 

13  21 

14 

10  50 

11  14 

11  39 

12  4 

12  31 

12  58 

13  27 

13  56 

14  26 

15 

11  39 

12  5 

12  32 

13  0 

13  28 

13  58 

14  28 

14  0 

15  32 

16 

12  29 

12  57 

13  26 

13  55 

14  26 

14  58 

15  31 

16  5 

16  40 

17 

13  19 

13  49 

14  20 

14  52 

15  25 

15  59 

16  34 

17  10 

17  48 

18 

14  10 

14  42 

15  15 

15  49 

16  24 

17  1 

17  38 

18  17 

18  58 

19 

15  2 

15  36 

16  11 

16  48 

17  25 

18  4 

18  44 

19  25 

20  9 

20 

15  55 

16  31 

17  8 

17  47 

18  27 

19  8 

19  51 

20  35 

21  21 

21 

16  49 

17  27 

18  7 

18  47 

19  30 

20  13 

20  59 

21  46 

22  34 

22 

17  44 

18  24 

19  6 

19  49 

20  34 

21  20 

22  8 

22  58 

23  50 

23 

18  39 

19  22 

20  6 

20  52 

21  39 

22  28 

23  19 

24  12 

25  7 

24 

19  36  20  21 

21  8 

21  56 

22  46 

.3  38 

24  32 

25  28 

26  26 

25 
•26 

20  34  21  21 

22  11 

23  1 

23  55 

24  50 

25  47 

26  46 

27  48 

,21  34122  24 

23  16  24  10 

25  5 

26  3 

27  3 

28  6 

29  11 

27 

22  35  23  28 

24  22  25  19 

26  17 

27  18 

28  22 

29  29 

30  38 

28123  37!24  33 

125  30  26  30i 

27  31 

28  36 

29  44 

30  54 

82  7 

60 


TABLE  OF  ASCENSIONAL  DIFFERENCE. 


1 

Latitude  or  Polar  Elevation. 

k 

0 

47 

& 

0   t   0 

49  1  50 

0 

51 

0 

52 

0 

53 

e 
54 

D.  U, 

D.  1C.{d.  U. 

D.  M. 

D.  li 

D.  M. 

D.  M. 

D.  M. 

1 

2 
3 
4 
5 

1  2 

2  4 

3  7 

4  9 

5  12 

1  4 

2  9 

3  13 

4  18 

5  23 

1  7 

2  13 

3  20 

4  27 

5  35 

1  9 

2  18 

3  27 

4  37 

5  47 

1  12 

2  23 
8  35 

4  47 

5  59 

1  14 

2  28 

3  43 

4  57 
6  12 

1  17 

2  34 

3  51 

5  8 

6  26 

1  -20 

2  39 

3  59 

5  19 

6  40 

1  23 

2  45 

4  8 

5  31 

6  55 

6 
7 
8 
9 
10 

6  15 

7  18 

8  22 

9  26 
10  31 

6  28 

7  34 

8  40 

9  47 
10  54 

6  42 

7  50 

8  59 

10  8 

11  18 

6  57 

8  7 

9  18 
10  30 
a  42 

7  12 

8  25 

9  38 
10  53 
12  8 

7  27 

8  43 

10  0 

11  17 

12  35 

7  44 
9  2 

10  22 

11  42 
13  2 

8  1 

9  23 
10  45 

12  8 

13  32 

8  19 

9  44 

11  9 

12  35 
14  3 

12 
13 
14 
15 

1157 

12  43 

13  50 

14  58 
16  7 

12  1 

13  11 

14  20 

15  30 

16  42 

12  28 

13  39 

14  51 

16  5 

17  19 

1^2  55 
U    9 

15  24 

16  40 

17  57 

13  24 

14  40 

15  58 

17  17 

18  37 

13  53 

15  13 

16  24 

17  56 
19  19 

14  24 

15  49 

17  11 

18  37 
20  4 

14  57 

16  23 

17  50 

19  19 

20  50 

15  31 

17  0 

18  32 

20  4 

21  38 

16 
17 
18 
19 
20 

17  16 

18  27 

19  40 

20  53 
22  8 

17  54 

19  8 

20  23 

21  40 

22  58 

18  34 

19  51 

21  9 

22  29 

23  51 

.i9  16 

20  36 

21  57 

23  18 

24  45 

19  59 

21  22 

22  47 

24  14 

25  42 

20  44  21  32 

22  11  23  2 

23  39  24  34 

25  10  26  9 

26  43  27  46 

22  22 

23  56 
25  35 

27  11 

28  53 

23  15 

24  53 
26  34 
28  17 
30  4 

21 
22 
23 
24 
25 

23  25 

24  44 

26  5 

27  27 

28  52 

24  10 

25  40 

27  5 

28  31 
30  0 

25  14 

26  40 

28  8 

29  38 
31  12 

26  12 

27  42 

29  14 

30  48 
32  26 

27  14 

28  47 
30  23 

32  3 

33  46 

28  18 

29  55 
31  43 
33  32 
35  21 

29  26 

31  8 

32  54 
34  44 
36  39 

30  37 
32  25 
34  17 
36  13 
38  14 

31  54 
33  47 
35  45 
37  48 
39  59 

26 
27 
28 

,30  20  31  32 
31  51  33  7 
;i3  25  34  46 

32  48  34  0 
34  28  35  53 
36  12  37  43 

35  32.37  10 
37  23  39  0 
39  19  41  2 

38  38 
40  42 
42  53 

40  20  42  10 
42  33  44  32 
44  53!47  2 

61 


TABLE  OF  ASCENSIONAL  DIFFERENCE. 


i 

Latitudb 

OR  Polar  Elbvatton. 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

55 

56 

57 

_58_ 

D.  li. 

59 

60 

D.  M. 

D.  M. 

D.  M. 

D.  M. 

D.  M» 

1 

1  26 

1  29 

1  32 

1  36 

1  40 

1  44 

2 

2  52 

2  58 

3  5 

3  12 

3  20 

3  28 

3 

4  18 

4  27 

4  48 

4  40 

5  0 

5  13 

4 

5  44 

5  57 

5  11 

6  25 

6  41 

6  57 

5 

7  11 

7  27 

7  44 

8  3 

8  22 

8  42 

6 

8  38 

8  58 

9  19 

9  4 

lU  4 

10  28 

7 

10  6 

10  29 

10  54 

11  20 

11  47 

12  17 

8 

11  35 

12  2 

12  30 

13  0 

13  31 

14  5 

9 

13  4 

13  35 

14  7 

14  41 

15  17 

15  65 

10 

14  35 

15  9 

15  45 

16  23 

17  4 

17  47 

11 

16  7 

16  45 

17  25 

18  8 

18  53 

19  41 

12 

17  40 

18  22 

19  6 

19  53 

20  43 

21  36 

13 

19  15 

20  1 

20  50 

21  41 

22  36 

23  o4 

14 

20  52 

21  42 

22  35 

23  3 

24  31 

25  35 

15 

22  30 

23  24 

24  22 

25  23 

26  29 

27  39 

16 

24  10 

25  9 

26  12 

27  19 

29  30 

29  47 

17 

25  53 

26  57 

28  5 

29  18 

30  35 

31  59 

18 

27  39 

28  48 

30  1 

31  10 

32  44 

34  19 

19 

29  27 

30  41 

32  1 

33  26 

34  58 

36  37 

20 

31  19 

32  26 

34  5 

35  37 

37  17 

39  5 

21 

33  15 

34  41 

36  14 

37  54 

39  42 

41  40 

22 

35  14 

36  48 

38  28 

40  17 

42  15 

44  25 

23 

37  19 

39  0 

40  49 

42  47 

44  57 

47  20 

24 

39  29 

41  18 

43  17 

45  26 

47  49 

50  27 

25 

41  45 

43  48 

45  54 

48  16 

60  54 

53  52 

26 

44  9 

46  18 

48  41 

51  19 

54  16 

57  39 

27 

46  41 

49  4 

51  41 

53  38 

58  1 

61  57 

28  1 

49  24 

52  1 

54  58 

59  19 

62  14 

67  4 

62 


TABLE  OF  THE  POLES  OF  THE  HOUSES, 


From  the  Equator  to  60  Degrees  of  Latitude, 


IV>le 

ofiSe 

Poleo/ihc 

Poleo/ihe 

Poleoftbd 

Ut. 

sH^ISt 

ISth,  and, 
(kh,&  8tfa 

Lat. 

lltb 
5th, 

,8rd 
&9th 

12th« 
6lh, 

2Bd.| 
&  8tU 

DIG. 

Honset. 

Houses. 

DEO. 

Houses. 

Houses. 

OBO 

MIN. 

OBO. 

MIN. 

DE6. 

MIN. 

DBG.  MIN. 

1 

0 

21 

0 

42 

31 

11 

26 

21 

56 

2 

0 

41 

1 

22 

32 

11 

54 

22 

46 

3 

1 

0 

2 

0 

33 

12 

23 

23 

36 

4 

1 

21 

2 

41 

34 

12 

51 

24 

25 

5 

1 

41 

3 

23 

35 

13 

26 

24 

15 

6 

2 

0 

4 

0 

36 

13 

51 

26 

5 

7 

2 

21 

4 

40 

37 

14 

18 

26 

Jbb 

8 

2 

41 

5 

21 

38 

14 

52 

27 

48 

9 

3 

2 

6 

2 

39 

15 

24 

28 

40 

10 

3 

28 

6 

43 

40 

15 

56 

29 

32 

11 

3 

43 

7 

24 

41 

.16 

29 

30 

25 

12 

4 

4 

8 

5 

42 

17 

5 

31 

20 

13 

4 

24 

8 

45 

43 

17 

42 

32 

18 

14 

4 

45 

9 

26 

44 

rs 

20 

33 

15 

15 

5 

7 

10 

10 

45 

18 

58 

34 

13 

16 

5 

29 

10 

50 

46 

19 

37 

35 

10 

17 

5 

49 

11 

30 

47 

20 

19 

36 

10 

18 

6 

12 

12 

14 

48 

21 

3 

37 

12 

19 

6 

34 

12 

57 

49 

21 

46 

38 

12 

20 

6 

57 

13 

41 

50 

22 

33 

39 

14 
18 

21 

7 

20 

14 

24 

51 

23 

21 

40 

22 

7 

43 

15 

7 

52 

24 

12 

41 

24 

23 

8 

5 

15 

50 

53 

25 

6 

42 

32 

24 

8 

30 

16 

36 

54 

26 

1 

43 

39 

25 

8 

54 

17 

22 

55 

26 

59 

44 

48 

26 

9 

17 

18 

5 

56 

28 

1 

45 

59 

27 

9 

43 

18 

52 

57 

22 

6 

47 

13 

28 

10 

8 

19 

37 

58 

30 

15 

48 

27 

29 

10 

32 

20 

21 

59 

31 

29 

49 

44 

30. 

10 

59 

21 

9 

60 

32 

48 

51 

4 

53 


TABLE  OF  HOUSES  FOR  LIVERPOOL. 
Latitudb  5d<>  25'NoRTH. 


Right  Asc. 

of 
Meridian. 

10th 
House. 

Uth 
House. 

12th 
House. 

Ascendant. 

2nd 
House. 

3rd 
House. 

DBG.  MIN. 

Ariet. 

Tmirut, 

GmM, 

Cmncer, 

Leo. 

F^. 

0   " 

0 

0 

0 

28  13 

0 

0 

0   0 

0 

10 

24 

14 

3 

0  55 

1 

11 

25 

28  46 

14 

4 

1  50 

2 

12 

26 

29  25 

15 

5 

2  45 

3 

13 

27 

osiu 

16 

6 

3  40 

4 

14 

28 

0    49 

17 

6 

4  35 

5 

15 

29 

1  25 

17 

7 

5  30 

6 

16 

29 

2   7 

18 

8 

6  25 

7 

17 

23 

2  42 

19 

9 

7  21 

8 

18 

1 

3  26 

19 

10 

8  16 

9 

19 

2 

4   4 

20 

10^ 

9  11 

10 

20 

3 

4  41 

21 

11 

10   6 

11 

22 

4 

5  19 

22 

12 

11   2 

12 

23 

4 

5  68 

22 

13 

U  57 

13 

24 

5 

6  36 

23 

14 

12  53 

14 

25 

6 

7  14 

24 

15 

13  48 

15 

26 

7 

7  53 

24 

15 

14  44 

16 

27 

8 

8  32 

25 

16 

15  40 

17 

28 

8 

9  10 

26 

17 

16  35 

18 

29 

9 

9  47 

26 

18 

17  31 

19 

n 

10 

10  25 

27 

19 

18  27 

20 

1 

11 

11   5 

28 

20 

19  23 

21 

2 

12 

11  43 

29 

20 

20  20 

22 

3 

12 

12  22 

29 

21 

21  16 

23 

4 

13 

13   0 

t« 

22 

22  12 

24 

5 

14 

13  39 

1 

23 

23   9 

25 

6 

15 

14  18 

2 

24 

24   6 

26 

7 

16 

14  56 

2 

25 

25   2 

27 

8 

16 

15  35 

3 

26 

25  59 

28 

9 

17 

16  14 

4 

26 

26  57 

29 

10 

18 

16  53 

4 

27 

27  54 

30 

11 

19 

17  32 

5 

28 

54 


TABLE  OF  HOUSES  FOR  LIVERPOOL. 
Latitudb  53*  25'  North. 


"Kght  Asc. 

of 
Meridian. 


loth 
House. 


11th 
House, 


12th 
House. 


Gemini.  Cancer. 


Ascendant. 


Leo, 


2nd 
House. 


Virgo. 


3rd 
House. 


Virgo. 


27  64 

28  51 

29  49 

30  46 

31  44 

32  42 

33  40 

34  38 

35  37 

36  36 

37  34 


0 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 


0 

li 
12 
13 
14 
15 
15 
\^ 
17 

la 

19 
20 


19 
20 
21 
21 
22 
23 
24 
24 
25 
26 
27 


0  ^ 

17  32 

18  11 

18  51 

19  30 

20  9 
20  48 
2i  37 
22  8 

22  47 

23  28 

24  8 


0 

5 

6 

7 

8 

8 

9 

10 

11 

11 

12 

13 


29 

1 

1 

2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 


38  33 

39  33 

40  32 

41  31 

42  31 

43  31 

44  31 

45  31 

46  32 

47  32 


11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 


21 

27 

22 

28 

23 

29 

24 

« 

25 

0 

26 

1 

27 

2 

28 

3 

29 

4 

S 

5 

24  48 

25  28 

26  8 

26  48 

27  29 

28  10 
28  51 
29tw32 

0  13 

0  54 


13 
14 
15 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
20 


8 
9 
10 
11 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 


48  33 

49  34 

50  35 

51  36 

52  38 

53  40 

54  42 

55  44 

56  46 

57  48 


21 
22 
23 
24 
25 
26 
27 
28 
29 
30 


0 

5 

1 

6 

2 

7 

3 

8 

4 

8 

5 

9 

6 

10 

7 

11 

8 

12 

9 

12 

1  36 

2  17 

2  59 

3  41 


23 
5 
47 
30 
12 
54 


21 
22 
23 
24 
25 
25 
26 
27 
28 
28 


17 
18 
19 
20 
21 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 


55 

TABLE  OF  HOUSES  FOR  LIVERPOOL^ 

Latttudb  53<»  22'  North. 


Kight  Asc 

of 
Meridian. 

10th 
House. 

11th 
House* 

12th 
House. 

Ascendant. 

?iid 
House. 

3rd 
House. 

DBO.   MIN. 

GemM, 

Cancer. 

Leo, 

Virgo. 

Virgo, 

Libra. 

0           " 

u 

0 

0 

0         " 

0 

u 

57    48 

0 

9 

12 

7    54 

28 

25 

58    51 

1 

10 

13 

8    37 

29 

26 

59    53 

2 

11 

14 

9    20 

£k 

27 

60    56 

3 

12 

15 

10      3 

1 

28 

61     59 

4 

13 

16 

10    47 

1 

29 

63      3 

5 

14 

16 

11     30 

2 

«l 

64      6 

6 

15 

17 

12     13 

3 

0 

65      9 

7 

15 

18 

12    56 

4 

1 

66     13 

8 

16 

19 

13    40 

5 

2 

67    17 

9 

17 

20 

14    24 

6 

3 

68    21 

10 

18 

20 

15      8 

6 

4 

69    25 

11 

19 

21 

15     52 

7 

5 

70    29 

12 

20 

22 

16    36 

8 

6 

71    34 

13 

21 

23 

17     19 

9 

7 

72    38 

14 

22 

24 

18      4 

10 

8 

73    43 

15 

23 

25 

18    49 

11 

9 

75    47 

16 

24 

25 

19    33 

12 

10 

75    52 

17 

25 

26 

20    17 

12 

11 

76    57 

18 

26 

27 

21       1 

13 

12 

78      2 

19 

27 

28 

21     46 

14 

13 

79      7 

20 

27 

28 

22    31 

15 

13 

80    12 

21 

28 

zy 

23     16 

16 

14 

81     17 

22 

29 

n 

24      0 

17 

15 

82    22 

23 

ft 

I 

24    45 

17 

16 

83    28 

24 

1 

2 

25    30 

18 

17 

84    33 

25 

2 

3 

26    15 

19 

18 

85    38 

26 

3 

3 

27      0 

20 

20 

86    44 

27 

4 

4 

27    45 

20 

20 

87    49 

28 

5 

5 

28    30 

21 

21 

88    55 

29 

6 

6 

29    15 

22 

22 

90      0 

30 

7. 

7 

30      0 

23 

23 

\ 


56 

TABLE  OF  HOUSES  FOR  LIVERPOOL. 
Latitudb  53<>  25'  North^ 


Kight  Aitc. 

of 
Meridian. 

10th 
Houae. 

nth 

House. 

12th 

House. 

Ascendant. 

2Dd 

House. 

3rd 
House. 

DBO.  MIN. 

Comcer. 

Leo, 

Flr^. 

lAbra, 

Uhra, 

Scorpio. 

0    ^ 

0 

0 

0 

0  * 

0 

0 

90   0 

0 

7 

7 

0   0 

23 

23 

91   5 

1 

8 

8 

0  45 

24 

24 

92  11 

2 

9 

9 

1  30 

25 

25 

93  16 

3 

10 

9 

2  15 

26 

26 

94  22 

4 

11 

10 

3   0 

27 

27 

95  27 

5 

11 

11 

3  45 

27 

28 

96  32 

6 

12 

12 

4  30 

28 

29 

97  38 

7 

13 

13 

5  15 

29 

29 

98  43 

8 

14 

13 

6   0 

tn. 

t 

99  48 

9 

15 

14 

6  44 

1 

1 

100  53 

10 

16 

15 

7  29 

2 

2 

101  58 

11 

17 

16 

8  14 

2 

3 

103   3 

12 

18 

17 

8  59 

3 

4 

104   8 

13 

19 

18 

9  43 

4 

5 

105  13 

14 

20 

18 

10  27 

5 

6 

106  17 

15 

21 

19 

11  11 

5 

7 

107  22 

16 

22 

20 

11  56 

6 

8 

108  26 

17 

23 

21 

12  40 

7 

9 

109  31 

18 

24 

22 

13  24 

8 

10 

110  35 

19 

25 

23 

14   8 

9 

11 

111  39 

20 

25 

23 

14  52 

10 

12 

112  43 

21 

26 

24 

15  36 

10 

13 

113  47 

22 

27 

25 

16  20 

11 

14 

114  51 

23 

28 

26 

17   4 

12 

14 

115  54 

24 

29 

27 

17  47 

13 

15 

116  57 

25 

t« 

28 

18  30 

14 

16 

118   1 

26 

1 

29 

19  13 

J5 

18 

119   4 

27 

2 

29 

19  57 

15 

1 

120   7 

28 

3 

*fe 

20  40 

16 

19 

121   9 

29 

4 

1 

21  23 

J7 

20 

122  12 

30 

5 

2 

22   6 

18 

21 

67 


TABLE  OF  HOUSES  FOR  LIVERPOOL. 
Latitudi  53°  25'  Nokth. 


KightAsc. 

of 
Meridian. 

10th 
House, 

11th 
House. 

12th 

House. 

Ascendant. 

2nd 
House. 

3rd 
House. 

OKO.  MIN. 

Leo, 

Virgo, 

ua^a. 

Uhr; 

Bcarrio. 

Sagitt, 

0    ^ 

0 

0 

0 

«   ^ 

0 

0 

122  12 

0 

5 

2 

22   6 

18 

21 

123  14 

1 

6 

2 

22  48 

19 

22 

124  16 

2 

7 

3 

23  30 

19 

23 

125  18 

3 

8 

4 

24  )3 

20 

24 

126  20 

4 

9 

5 

24  55 

21 

25 

127  22 

5 

10 

6 

25  37 

22 

26 

128  24 

6 

10 

6 

26  19 

22 

27 

129  25 

7 

11 

7 

27   1 

23 

28 

130  26 

8 

12 

8 

27  43 

24 

28 

131  27 

9 

13 

9 

28  24 

25 

29 

132  28 

10 

14 

9 

29   6 

26 

Vf 

133  28 

ii 

15 

io 

29  47 

26 

I 

134  29 

12 

16 

u 

0ni28 

27 

2 

135  29 

13 

17 

12 

1   9 

28 

3 

136  29 

14 

18 

13 

1  ^0 

29 

4 

137  29 

15 

18 

13 

2  81 

29 

5 

138  29 

16 

19 

14 

3  12 

t 

6 

139  28 

17 

20 

15 

3  52 

1 

7 

140  28 

18 

21 

16 

4  32 

2 

8 

141  27 

19 

22 

17 

5  12 

3 

9 

142  26 

20 

23 

17 

5  52 

3 

10 

143  25 

i\ 

24 

1^ 

6  32 

4  ■ 

11 

144  23 

22 

25 

19 

7  13 

5 

12 

145  22 

23 

26 

20 

7  53 

6 

13 

146  20 

24 

27 

21 

8  23 

7 

14 

J  47  18 

25 

28 

21 

9  12 

8 

15 

148  16 

26 

28 

22 

9  51 

8 

16 

149  14 

27 

29 

23 

10  30 

9 

17 

150  U 

28 

£k 

24 

11   9 

10 

18 

151   9 

29 

1 

24 

11  48 

10 

19 

153   6 

30 

2 

25 

12  28 

11 

20 

58 


TABLE  OF  HOUSES  FOR  LIVERPOOL. 
Latitudb  53<*  25'  North. 


Right  Asc. 

of 
Meriditn. 

lOth 
House. 

11th 
House. 

12ih 
House. 

Ascendant. 

2nd 
House. 

3rd 
House. 

DM.   MIN. 

Fir/0. 

Ukra. 

lAbra, 

Scorpio. 

Soffitt 

Caprie. 

0         ^ 

0 

0 

0 

0         ^ 

0 

0 

152      6 

0 

2 

25 

12    28 

11 

20 

153      4 

1 

3 

26 

13      6 

12 

21 

154      1 

2 

3 

26 

13    45 

13 

21 

154    58 

3 

4 

27 

14    25 

14 

22 

155    54 

4 

5 

28 

15      4 

14 

23 

156    51 

5 

7 

29 

15    42 

15 

24 

157    48 

6 

7 

29 

16    21 

16 

25 

158    44 

7 

8 

«l 

17      0 

17 

26 

159    40 

8 

9 

1 

17    39 

18 

27 

160    37 

9 

10 

2 

18    17 

19 

28 

161    33 

10 

10 

2 

18    55 

19 

29 

162    29 

11 

11 

3 

19    34 

20 

ca 

163    25 

12 

12 

4 

20    13 

21 

1 

164    20 

13 

13 

4 

20    51 

22 

2 

165    16 

14 

14 

6 

21     30 

23 

4 

166    12 

15 

15 

6 

22      8 

24 

5 

167      7 

16 

16 

6 

22    46 

24 

6 

168      3 

17 

17 

7 

23    24 

25 

7 

168    58 

]8 

17 

8 

24      2 

26 

8 

169    54 

19 

18 

9 

24    40 

27 

9 

170  49 

171  44 

20 

19 

9 

25     19 

28 

10 

21 

20 

10 

25    59 

29 

11 

172    39 

22 

20 

11 

26    38 

29 

12 

173    35 

23 

21 

U 

27    15 

vy 

13 

174    30 

24 

22 

12 

27    53 

0 

14 

175    25 

25 

23 

13 

28    32 

1 

15 

176    20 

26 

24 

13 

29    11 

2 

16 

177    15 

27 

25 

14 

29    53 

3 

17 

178    10 

28 

25 

15 

0/35 

4 

18 

179      5 

29 

26 

15 

I     U 

5 

20 

180      0 

30 

27 

16 

1    47 

6 

21 

59 


TABLE  OF  HOUSES  FOR  LIVERPOOL. 
Latitude  53*  25'  North. 


Eight  Asc. 

of 
Meridian. 

10th 
House. 

lllh 
House. 

12th 
House. 

Ascendant 

2nd 
House. 

3rd 
House. 

DKO.  MIN. 

Ubra, 

Uhra, 

Scorpio. 

SoffUiwy. 

Caprie. 

Aiiu4>r. 

0    ^ 

0 

0 

0 

0   ^ 

0 

0 

180   0 

0 

27 

16 

1  47 

6 

21 

180  55 

I 

28 

17 

2  33 

7 

22 

181  50 

2 

29 

18 

3  11 

8 

23 

182  45 

3 

m 

18 

3  49 

9 

24 

183  40 

4 

0 

19 

4  28 

10 

25 

184  35 

5 

1 

20 

5   7 

10 

26 

185  30 

6 

2 

20 

5  47 

11 

28 

186  25 

7 

3 

21 

6  27 

12 

29 

187  21 

8 

3 

22 

7   6 

12 

X 

188  16 

9 

4 

22 

7  46 

14 

1 

189  11 

10 

5 

23 

8  26 

15 

2 

190   6 

11 

6 

24 

9   7 

16 

3 

191   2 

12 

7 

25 

9  48 

17 

5 

191  57 

13 

7 

25 

10  29 

18 

6 

192  53 

14 

8 

26 

11  11 

19 

7 

193  48 

15 

9 

27 

11  53 

20 

8 

194  44 

16 

10 

27 

12  35 

21 

10 

195  40 

17 

11 

28 

13  17 

22 

10 

196  35 

18 

11 

29 

14   0 

23 

12 

197  31 

19 

12 

29 

14  43 

24 

13 

198  27 

20 

13 

t 

15  27 

25 

14 

199  23 

21 

14 

I 

16  11 

26 

15 

200  20 

22 

15 

2 

16  54 

27 

17 

201  16 

23 

15 

2 

17  38 

29 

18 

202  12 

24 

16 

3 

18  25 

na 

19 

203   9 

25 

17 

4 

19  10 

1 

20 

204   6 

26 

18 

5 

19  57 

2 

22 

205   2 

27 

19 

6 

20  43 

3 

23 

205  59 

28 

20 

6 

21  29 

4 

24 

206  57 

29 

21 

7 

22  16 

6 

26 

207  54 

30 

21 

8 

23   4 

7 

27 

(iO 


TABLE  OF  HOUSES  FOR  LIVERPOOL. 
Latitudb  53^  25'  Norte. 


Rt^tAsc. 

of 
Meridian. 

lOth 
House. 

11th 
House. 

12th 
House. 

Ascendant 

2nd 
House. 

3rd 
House. 

DM.  MIN. 

Scorpio, 

Scotpio* 

Sapitt. 

Sagtttary. 

Aq^ar. 

PUtet, 

0    ^ 

0 

0 

0 

0    ^ 

0 

• 

207  54 

0 

^1 

8 

23   4 

7 

27 

208  51 

1 

22 

9 

23  53 

9 

29 

209  49 

2 

23 

9 

24  42 

10 

T 

210  46 

3 

24 

10 

25  31 

11 

1 

211  44 

4 

25 

11 

26  21 

13 

3 

212  42 

5 

26 

12 

27  13 

14 

4 

213  40 

6 

26 

13 

28   5 

16 

6 

214  38 

7 

27 

13 

28  58 

17 

7 

215  37 

8 

28 

14 

29  51 

19 

8 

216  36 

9 

29 

15 

0w45 

20 

9 

217  34 

10 

t 

16 

1  40 

21 

11 

218  33 

11 

1 

16 

2  36 

23 

12 

219  33 

12 

1 

17 

3  32 

24 

13 

2^0  32 

13 

2 

Id 

4  30 

26 

15 

221  31 

14 

3 

19 

5  28 

28 

16 

222  31 

15 

4 

20 

6  28 

29 

18 

223  31 

16 

5 

21 

7  28 

X 

19 

224  31 

17 

6 

22 

8  30 

2 

20 

225  31 

18 

7 

23 

9  33 

4 

21 

226  32 

19 

7 

23 

10  38 

6 

23 

227  32 

20 

8 

24 

11  44 

8 

24 

228  33 

21 

9 

25 

12  52 

9 

25 

229  34 

22 

10 

26 

14   0 

11 

27 

230  35 

23 

11 

27 

15  10 

13 

28 

231  36 

24 

12 

28 

16  21 

15 

29 

232  38 

25 

13 

29 

17  37 

17 

0 

233  40 

26 

14 

w 

18  53 

19 

2 

234  41 

27 

15 

1 

20  10 

20 

3 

235  43 

28 

15 

2 

21  28 

22 

4 

236  46 

29 

16 

3 

22  50 

24 

6 

237  48 

30 

17 

4. 

24  13 

26 

7- 

61 


TABLE  OF  HOUSES  FOR  LIVERK)OL. 
Latitudb  53o  25'  Korth. 


kightAsc 

of 
Meridian. 

10th 
House. 

nth 
House. 

12th 
House. 

Ascendant. 

2nd 
House. 

3rd 
House. 

DEG.   MIN. 

Sagitt. 

Sagitt. 

Caprie. 

Capricorn, 

JrWC€9, 

Taurus. 

0           " 

0 

9 

0 

0    •    ^ 

u 

0 

237    48 

0 

17 

4 

24     13 

26 

7 

238    51 

1 

18 

5 

25    39 

28 

8 

239    53 

2 

19 

6 

rr  9 

29 

10 

240    56 

3 

20 

r-i 

>28    40 

Y 

11 

241     59 

4 

21 

7 

0««11 

2 

12 

243      3 

5 

.  22 

9 

1    48 

4 

13 

244      6 

6 

23 

9 

3    28 

6 

14 

245      9 

7 

24 

11 

5      9 

9 

16 

246    13 

8 

25 

12 

6    55 

11 

17 

247     17 

9 

26 

13 

8    44 

13 

18 

248    21 

10 

27 

14 

10    36 

15 

20 

249    25 

11 

28 

15 

J2    31 

17 

21  ^ 

250    29 

12 

29 

16 

14    30 

19 

22 

251    34 

13 

V3P 

17 

16    31 

21 

24 

252    38 

14 

1 

19 

18    39 

23 

25 

253    43 

15 

2 

20 

20    49 

25 

26 

254    47 

16 

3 

21 

23      2 

27 

27 

255    52 

17 

4 

22 

25    20 

28 

28 

256    57 

18 

5 

23 

27    41 

W 

29 

258      2 

19 

6 

25 

03€    7 

2 

n 

259      7 

20 

7 

26 

2     36 

3 

2 

260    12 

21 

8 

2/ 

5      9 

5 

3 

261     17 

22 

9 

29 

7    44 

7 

4 

262    22 

23 

10 

e« 

10    22 

8 

5 

263    28 

24 

11 

1 

13      4 

10 

6 

264    33 

25 

12 

3 

15    51 

12 

7 

265    38 

26 

13 

4 

18    37 

14 

8 

266    44 

27 

14 

5 

21    25 

15 

9 

267    49 

28 

15 

7 

24     14 

17 

10 

268    55 

29 

16 

8 

27      7 

19 

11 

270      0 

30 

17 

10 

30      0 

20 

13 

62 

TABLE  OF  HOUSES  FOR  LIVERPOOL. 
Latitudb  53<*  25'  North. 


Kight  Asc. 

of 
Meridian. 

10th 
House. 

11th 
House. 

12th 
House. 

Ascendant. 

2nd 
House. 

3rd 
House. 

DBO.  MIM. 

Cnjirfc. 

Ci9»rte. 

Aquar, 

JrUi. 

Taunu. 

1 

0     f 

0 

0 

0 

0   ^ 

0 

0 

270   0 

0 

17 

10 

0   0 

20 

13 

271   5 

1 

18 

11 

2  53 

21 

14 

272  11 

2 

19 

13 

5  46 

23 

15 

273  16 

3 

20 

15 

8  35 

25 

16 

274  22 

4 

21 

16 

11  23 

26 

17 

275  27 

5 

23 

18 

14   9 

27 

18 

276  32 

6 

24 

20 

16  56 

29 

19 

277  38 

7 

25 

21 

19  38 

n 

20 

278  43 

8 

26 

23 

22  16 

1 

21 

279  48 

9 

27 

24 

24  51 

2 

22 

280  53 

10 

28 

26 

27  24 

4 

23 

281  58 

11 

ss 

28 

29  53 

5 

24 

283   3 

12 

1 

29 

2»19 

7 

25 

284   8 

13 

2 

X 

4  40 

8 

26 

285  13 

14 

3 

2 

6  58 

9 

27 

286  17 

15 

4 

4 

9  U 

10 

28 

287  22 

16 

5 

6 

11  21 

11 

29 

288  26 

17 

7 

8 

13  29 

12 

SB 

289  31 

18 

8 

10 

15  30 

14 

1 

290  35 

19 

9 

12 

17  29 

15 

2 

291  39 

20 

10 

14 

19  24 

16 

3 

292  43 

21 

[  12 

16 

21  i6 

16 

4 

293  47 

22 

13 

28 

23   5 

18 

5 

294  51 

23 

14 

20 

24  51 

19 

6 

295  54 

24 

15 

22 

26  32 

20 

7 

296  57 

25 

17 

24 

28  12 

21 

8 

298   1 

26 

18 

26 

29  49 

22 

9 

299   4 

27 

19 

28 

in2d 

23 

10 

300   7 

28 

20 

T 

2  51 

25 

11 

301   9 

29 

21 

1 

4  21 

26 

12 

302  12 

30 

23 

3 

5  47 

26 

13 

63 


TABLE  OF  HOUSES  FOR  LIVERPOOL. 
Latitum  53»  25'  North. 


Right  Attc! 

of 
Meridian. 


10th 
House. 


Uth 
House. 


]2th 
House. 


Ascendant. 


2nd 
House. 


3rd 
House. 


Aquar, 


Aquar. 


Ariet. 


G€tni$H» 


Gemini, 


Cameer. 


302  12 

303  U 

304  16 

305  18 

306  20 

307  22 

308  24 
300  25 

310  26 

311  27 

312  28 


0 

0 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 


0 

23 

24 

25 

27 

28 

29 

)€ 

2 

3 

4 

6 


0 

3 

5 

7 

9 

11 

13 

15 

17 

18 

20 

22 


47 
10 


8  32 

9  50 

11  7 

12  23 

13  39 

14  50 

16  0 

17  8 

18  16 


26 

28 

28 

29 

So 

1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 


0 

13 
14 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 


313  28 

314  29 

315  29 

316  29 

317  29 

318  29 

319  28 

320  27 

321  27 

322  26 


11 

7 

12 

9 

13 

10 

14 

11 

15 

12 

16 

14 

17 

15 

18 

17 

19 

18 

20 

19 

24 

26 

27 

29 

» 

2 

4 

6 

7 

9 


19  22 

20  27 

21  30 

22  32 

23  32 

24  32 

25  30 

26  28 

27  24 

28  20 


7 

7 

8 

9 

10 

11 

12 

12 

13 

14 


22 
23 
24 

25 
26 
27 
27 

28 
29 
SI 


323  25 

321  23 

325  22 

326  20 

327  18 

328  16 

329  14 
339  11 

331  9 

332  6 


21 

21 

22 

22 

23 

23 

24 

25 

25 

26 

26 

28 

27 

29 

28 

T 

29 

1 

30 

3 

10 

11 

13 
15 
16 
17 
19 
21 
21 
23 


29  15 
025  9 
1   2 


55 
47 
39 
29 
18 
7 
56 


15 

1 

16 

2 

16 

3 

17 

4 

18 

4 

19 

5 

20 

6 

21 

7 

21 

8 

22 

9 

64 


TABLE  OF  HOUSES  FOR  LIVERPOOL. 
Latitudb  53*  2&'  North. 


Right  Anc. 

of 
Meridian. 


DIO.   MIN. 


lOth 
House. 


PUeet, 


11th 
House. 


12th 
House. 


Ariit,     Taurut 


Ascendant. 


Cancer. 


2nd 
House. 


Cancer, 


3rd 
House. 


Leo, 


0 

332 
333 
334 


3a4  58 

a35  55 

336  51 

337  48 

338  44 

339  40 

340  37 

341  38 


0 

0 

0 

3 

1 

4 

2 

5 

3 

7 

4 

8 

5 

9 

6 

10 

7 

12 

8 

13 

9 

14 

10 

16 

23 
24 
«5 
26 
27 
29 

n 

1 
2 
3 
4 


0  ^ 

6  56 

7  44 

8  31 

9  17 
10  3 

10  50 

11  35 

12  22 

13  6 

13  49 

14  33 


0 

22 
23 
23 
24 
25 
26 
26 
27 
28 
29 
29 


10 
10 
11 
12 
13 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 


342  29 

343  25 

344  20 

345  16 

346  12 

347  7 

348  3 

348  58 

349  54 

350  49 


11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 


17 
18 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 
26 
27 
28 


5 

7 

8 

9 

10 

II 

12 

13 

14 

15 


15  17 

16  0 

16  43 

17  25 

18  7 

18  49 

19  31 

20  12 

20  53 

21  34 


ft 
1 
2 
3 
4 
4 
5 
6 
6 
7 


18 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 
24 
25 


351  44 

352  39 

353  35 

354  30 

355  25 

356  20 

357  15 

358  10 

359  5 

360  0 


21 
22 
23 
24 
25 
26 
27 
28 
29 
30 


29 

1 
2 
4 

5 
6 
7 
8 
10 


16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 
24 


22  14 

22  52 

23  33 

24  13 

24  53 

25  32 

26  11 

26  49 

27  27 

28  13 


8 
8 
9 
10 
11 
11 
12 
13 
13 
14 


26 

27 

27 

28 

29 

iW 

1 

2 

2 

3 


^ 


'^^  .-^ 


'^^ 


;.'x 


.*»  .  ' 


Hi 


^ 


K 


t:"'UAiy. 


4"    ^  ii»v'r 


.:i:atli 


r 


THE  BORROWER  WILL  BE  CHARGED 
THE  COST  OF  OVERDUE  NOTIFICATION 
IF  THIS  BOOK  ]S  NOT  RETURNED  TO 
THE  LIBRARY  ON  OR  BEFORE  THE  LAST 
DATE  STAMPED  BELpW. 


iNOV  r-«J3^ 


K 


An  introducLlon  to  astrology: 

W1d«fi«r  Ubrary  003324364 

lllilllilllH 

3  2044  089  035  174 


